=== Page 1 ===
arXiv:2506.07976v2  [cs.LG]  10 Jun 2025
Thinking vs. Doing: Agents that Reason by
Scaling Test-Time Interaction
Junhong Shen*1,2, Hao Bai*3, Lunjun Zhang4, Yifei Zhou5, Amrith Setlur1, Shengbang Tong7, Diego Caples6, Nan
Jiang3, Tong Zhang3, Ameet Talwalkar1 and Aviral Kumar1
1Carnegie Mellon University, 2Scribe, 3University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign, 4University of Toronto, 5University of California,
Berkeley, 6The AGI Company, 7New York University
Figure 1: We propose a new-axis of test-time scaling for agents: scaling the number of interaction steps. Unlike traditional
methods that emphasize longer reasoning per step, we show that acting more helps gain new information from the environment
and improve task performance (detailed results of the left plot in Section 4.2).
Abstract: The current paradigm of test-time scaling relies on generating long reasoning traces (“thinking” more)
before producing a response. In agent problems that require interaction, this can be done by generating thinking
traces before acting in the world. However, this process does not allow agents to acquire new information from the
environment or adapt their behavior over time. In this work, we propose to scale test-time interaction, an untapped
dimension of test-time scaling that increases the agent’s interaction horizon to enable running rich behaviors such
as exploration, backtracking, and dynamic re-planning within a single rollout. To demonstrate the promise of
this scaling dimension, we study the domain of web agents. We first show that even prompting-based interaction
scaling without any training can improve task success on web benchmarks non-trivially. Building on this, we
introduce TTI (Test-Time Interaction), a curriculum-based online reinforcement learning (RL) approach that trains
agents by adaptively adjusting their rollout lengths. Using a Gemma 3 12B model, TTI produces state-of-the-art
open-source, open-data web agents on WebVoyager and WebArena benchmarks. We further show that TTI enables
agents to balance exploration and exploitation adaptively. Our results establish interaction scaling as a powerful,
complementary axis to scaling per-step compute, offering new avenues for training adaptive agents.
Project page: https://test-time-interaction.github.io
Code: https://github.com/test-time-interaction/TTI
1. Introduction
Recent advances in foundation models have enabled a shift from static language models to interactive
agents that perform multi-step tasks in dynamic environments like browsers [1–6], terminals [7], and
the physical world [8–13]. These agents operate in closed-loop settings where each action changes the
current state of the world and affects future interaction with the environment. As a result, interactive
agents must plan under uncertainty and adapt to failures in real time to be successful. How can we build
agents that succeed in such interactive settings?
Current post-training approaches produce reactive agents that respond to immediate observations but
struggle with evolving or uncertain task dynamics. Methods like supervised fine-tuning (SFT) on expert
*Equal contribution. Corresponding author(s): junhongs@andrew.cmu.edu, haob2@illinois.edu


=== Page 2 ===
Thinking vs. Doing: Agents that Reason by Scaling Test-Time Interaction
demonstrations [14–18] or reinforcement learning (RL) with task rewards [19–23] typically train agents
to predict a single best action at each step. Even with test-time scaling, where agents are prompted to
“think” longer before prescribing an action [24–26], they are still optimized to select the most effective
action based on the agent’s internal state. While sufficient for fully observable and stationary tasks,
reactive policies based on the agent’s internal estimate of the task state are often suboptimal in partially
observable (e.g., incomplete details visible on a page) or non-stationary (e.g., fluctuating prices during
flight booking) settings, where adaptive, information-seeking behavior is critical.
In this paper, we argue that instead of reactive “optimal” policies, agents should learn adaptive policies that
can collect new information from the environment and adjust their behaviors on-the-fly. A pre-requisite
for such adaptability is the ability to take more actions during deployment than those prescribed by an
expert trajectory. We therefore propose a new dimension of test-time scaling: increasing the number of
interaction steps of the agent. This allows agents to have sufficient context and time to attempt different
behaviors. For example, in a hotel booking task, an agent must first browse many listings to compare
user reviews and check availability before selecting the best option. Interaction scaling is orthogonal to
existing methods based on chain-of-thought (CoT), which emphasize deeper reasoning per step but do
not support information-gathering from the environment. This notion of information gain is unique to
agentic tasks with partial observability and requires interaction, not merely larger per-step compute. For
instance, an agent that reasons deeply about one selected hotel without interacting further may miss
better options that show up only after exploration.
Although the idea of interaction scaling is conceptually straightforward, extending it to post-training
and teaching agents to scale interaction autonomously presents key challenges. Without appropriate
training signals, agents may overfit to exploratory behaviors like blindly clicking links but not making
progress toward the actual task objective, wasting the additional steps. To tackle this issue, we propose
to combine online RL with a curriculum that prescribes how to scale the interaction horizon, training
agents that first learn effective exploitation before extending their horizon to explore.
We instantiate our approach in the domain of web agents, a widely applicable setting with well-established
benchmarks. We first show that scaling test-time interaction via prompting the agent to “think and act
again” after it decides to terminate can already improve the task success rate from 23% to ≥28% on
WebArena [2] (see Figure 3 for details). While this increases trajectory length and the number of tokens
generated, spending an equivalent amount of compute on conventional test-time scaling methods like
forcing the agent to think for longer [27] or running best-of-𝑛[28–30] yields less than a 3% gain. These
findings validate interaction scaling as a promising and complementary axis of test-time scaling.
We then move beyond prompting and develop TTI (Test-Time Interaction), a curriculum-based RL
approach that trains agents to adaptively scale interaction by gradually increasing the rollout horizon. We
scale TTI to large and diverse training sets (>100K tasks across ∼20 domains) by integrating it with an
automated pipeline that generates synthetic tasks for online data collection. TTI achieves state-of-the-art
performance among open-source agents trained on open data on both WebVoyager [1] and WebArena [2],
using only a 12B Gemma 3 model, improving over the non-fine-tuned agent by 9% and 8%, respectively.
Our analysis further shows that curriculum training enables adaptive exploration: agents learn to initiate
new searches or backtrack in complex tasks, while following efficient paths in simpler ones.
In summary, we introduce interaction scaling as a new dimension for test-time scaling of agents. We
propose TTI to train agents by adjusting interaction horizon dynamically. Our results show that TTI
yields strong empirical gains and offers promising directions for domains beyond web navigation.
2


=== Page 3 ===
Thinking vs. Doing: Agents that Reason by Scaling Test-Time Interaction
2. Related Work
Scaffolded foundation models as web agents. Prior works use external control structures to scaffold
foundation models via modular prompting [6, 31–37], programs [38–42], or feedback mechanisms [43–
46]. These methods often rely on proprietary models like GPT-4 [47] or Claude [48]. Thus, progress
is driven by designing better prompts and workflows for planning [49–52], self-correction [53], self-
evaluation [54, 55], or by integrating external modules such as memory [56] or retrieval systems [57].
More recently, developing specialized agents has become a promising direction. ScribeAgent [14] first uses
real-world data to demonstrate that simple fine-tuning can outperform most prompt-based agents. Prior
work also builds automated data curation workflows [58–60] and distillation methods [18]. Despite these
efforts, scaffolding methods remain fundamentally limited: they do not enable agents to self-improve
through interaction, and rely on fixed wrappers that lack adaptability across diverse environments.
RL training for foundation model agents. RL-based approaches enable agents to autonomously
improve through interaction. Prior work has explored DPO [61], actor-critic [20, 21, 62], or distributed
sampling [63]. Pipelines like PAE [19] and Learn-By-Interact [64] support automatic task generation,
exploration, and labeling. However, most of these approaches lack mechanisms for test-time exploration,
limiting the agent’s ability to adapt its behavior over long horizons, especially under partially observable
conditions. As Bai et al. [20] note, continued training after deployment is often required just to maintain
performance with these methods. Our work addresses this limitation by scaling test-time interaction
as an independent dimension, allowing agents to refine behavior while acting. Curriculum-based RL
has been applied in AutoWebGLM [65] and WebRL [23], where curricula are based on estimated task
difficulty derived from the complexity of LLM-generated instructions. While our approach also induces
a progression from simpler to more complex behaviors, it does so by gradually increasing the allowed
interaction horizon rather than relying on explicit measures of task difficulty.
Scaling test-time compute. Increasing test-time compute via best-of-𝑛sampling [29], beam search [66,
67], or verifiers [68–70] has shown to improve performance in reasoning-heavy tasks. In non-interactive
settings like math and competitive coding, recent methods train models to generate long CoT and scale
reasoning internally [e.g., 27, 71–73]. As for multi-turn interactive settings, most existing works simply
integrate CoT prompting into the agent system to enhance per-step reasoning [e.g., 52, 74]. EXACT [75]
scales up the search process for each action, GenRM-CoT [76] the number of verifiers, and Jin et al. [77]
the number of agents. However, none of these efforts studies the benefits of scaling over the time horizon,
where the agent can explore alternatives, backtrack, or gather more information before committing to
certain actions. Our work extends this line of research by introducing test-time scaling of interaction.
As we will show in our empirical results (Section 4.2), the benefits of scaling test-time interaction go
beyond test-time scaling (or “reasoning”) before taking an action, within a given time step, because each
extra step of interaction with the environment provides new information to the agentic policy, whereas
thinking for longer simply reorganizes information that the agent already has.
3. Problem Setup
We consider solving a web task as a finite-horizon sequential decision-making process guided by a reward
objective1. Formally, the environment implements a transition function that evolves over time and provides
an observation 𝑜𝑡at step 𝑡reflecting the current task state (details regarding the parameterization of the
observation space are shown below). The agent policy 𝜋is parameterized by a multi-modal foundation
1While this work centers on web agents, we believe the insights should generalize to other agent problem domains, and we
hope future work will extend these ideas beyond web agents and web navigation.
3


=== Page 4 ===
Thinking vs. Doing: Agents that Reason by Scaling Test-Time Interaction
model that maps observation history 𝑜1:𝑡−1 and action history 𝑎1:𝑡−1 to the next action 𝑎𝑡. These histories
allow the policy to represent rich, context-dependent behaviors enabled via interaction (details about
the design of the action space are shown below). We denote the environment horizon, or the maximum
number of interaction steps allowed in the environment, as ℎ. For each task, the actual interaction process
ends when the agent issues a stop signal or reaches the step limit ℎ. Let ℎstop ∈(0, ℎ] denote the actual
number of steps taken. The agent receives a reward of 1 for task success, and 0 otherwise.
Observation space design. Following [2, 14, 19], we consider an observation space consisting of the
task goal, the URL, and a structured representation of the current web page that includes both the
accessibility tree of the web page and a screenshot augmented with a set-of-marks overlay [1], which
assigns a unique identifier to each element that the agent can interact with. While the agent has access
to all past observations in principle, doing so quickly exhausts the context window in practice, so we
truncate observation history to the most recent three steps, similar to prior works [19]. However, the
agent still has access to all of its past actions. We show in Appendix B an example observation.
Action space parameterization. We adopt a discrete action space with six actions: click, type, scroll, go
back, search (e.g., Google or Bing), and stop the task with an answer. Following Yang et al. [33], we do
not consider compound actions like goto[url], as complex action spaces can hinder performance. For
a detailed definition of each action, see the agent prompt in Appendix D.1.
4. Scaling Test-Time Interaction: A New Dimension of Agent Scaling
Prior methods for LLM test-time compute scaling usually scale the number of thinking tokens at each
step [73, 78–80], but this does not enable an agent to engage in longer interactions with the environment
to collect new information. In principle, scaling the maximum number of interaction steps should allow
the agent to employ richer behavioral strategies such as re-attempts, backtracking, and recovery. We will
now verify this hypothesis via controlled experiments on WebArena [2]. We will then build upon these
insights to develop TTI, an online RL method to explicitly train agents to optimize test-time interactions.
Controlled experiment setup. We choose WebArena [2] as our testbed, primarily because it enables
reproducible interaction with diverse domains (OneStopShop, Reddit, GitLab, CMS, and OpenStreetMap)
and is equipped with ground truth evaluators. We randomly sample 62 tasks for testing and reserve the
remaining 750 for online training (see Section 5.1). To ensure sufficient interaction, we set a generous
test-time limit of ℎ= 30, which is well above the average length of around 6 steps required by most
tasks [56, 81]. Note that experiments in this section are for analysis rather than benchmarking purposes.
We will show more experimental results on multiple benchmarks in Section 6.
Table 1: Base results av-
eraged over three runs.
Prompt
Task SR (%)
Action Only
14.76
CoT
23.81
To study the effect of increasing ℎ, we use a simple prompting-based agent with
Gemma 3 12B [82] base model, which observes the web page and outputs an
action via a single model call. It does not leverage any retrieval, verifiers, or other
external modules, ensuring any performance gains come solely from increased
ℎbut not auxiliary scaffolding. We also study whether it is beneficial to prompt
the agent to generate a reasoning trace before acting (see Appendix D.1 for the
templates). As Table 1 shows, CoT prompting yields significantly higher task success rate (SR) than
direct action generation, setting a baseline of 23.81% on the test tasks. While we also tried more complex
prompts that explicitly ask the agent to summarize the state, assess progress, and reflect, they did not
yield significant gains (see Appendix D.3). We thus adopt a simple chain-of-thought (CoT) approach as
the default prompting strategy for experiments in this section.
4


=== Page 5 ===
Thinking vs. Doing: Agents that Reason by Scaling Test-Time Interaction
4.1. Scaling Test-Time Interaction by Acting Longer
Figure 2: Scaling test-time interaction by prompting the agent to
“re-check” its answer. More re-checks lead to longer trajectories (dots)
and higher task success rates (bars), indicating at least some correlation
between acting for longer and higher success rates.
To study the impact of test-time interaction
scaling, we introduce a purely inference-
time “check-again” mechanism: after the
agent issues the task completion action, we
explicitly prompt it to reconsider its decision
by “You just signaled task completion. Let’s
pause and think again...” We can extend
re-checking from double-check (two passes)
to triple-check (three passes) and beyond,
using slightly varied prompt phrasings for each pass. Detailed prompts are in Appendix D.4.
As shown in Figure 2, prompting the agent to re-check not only increases the actual interaction length
ℎ𝑠𝑡𝑜𝑝(line plots), but also improves the success rates on most WebArena domains (bar plots). When
being asked to “check-again”, the agent either reaffirms its decision (e.g., “I previously stated the driving time
was approximately 30 minutes....30 minutes seems plausible with typical traffic conditions. I’ll stick with my previous
answer.”) or revises it upon reflection (e.g., “My apologies. I jumped to a conclusion prematurely. Although
the address book *displays* the desired address, the task requires me to *change* it....I should click button [24] to
modify the address.”). In particular, it changes its action ∼25% of the time after double-checking. This
highlights the potential of interaction scaling: when given sufficient time, the agent is likely to explore
alternatives before reaching an answer. The chances of the answer being correct could thus be higher.
However, we do observe that repeatedly prompting the agent to re-check can sometimes lead to confusion
or hallucination, causing it to revise correct answers into incorrect ones. This may explain the performance
drop observed in domains like Map. This is perhaps an inevitable limitation of scaling test-time interaction
via prompting alone, akin to how prompting is not an effective way to even scale per-step test-time compute
(see self-correction results for prompted models in Qu et al. [83]). We discuss this limitation further in
Section 4.2 and address by training the agents explicitly.
4.2. Scaling Test-Time Interaction vs. Per-Step Test-Time Compute
Next, we examine the effect of scaling interaction compared to scaling per-step reasoning: Given a total
token budget, should agents prioritize more interaction steps or generating longer reasoning traces at
each step? To explore this, we study two conventional test-time compute scaling methods.
Per-step budget forcing. Following Muennighoff et al. [27], we prompt the agent to “wait and think
again” after generating an initial CoT, encouraging more intermediate reasoning before it commits to an
action. We vary the number of forced waits from 1 to 4. Despite trying various prompts to induce longer
thinking from the agent (see Appendix D.4), our agent changes its actions only 15% of the time, and most
of these changes involve reordering subtasks rather than exploring alternative paths or error correction.
Per-step best-of-𝑛. At each step, we sample 𝑛∈{3, 5, 7} candidate actions and select one via majority
voting, similar to [14]. We did not scale 𝑛up further because best-of-𝑛is compute-intensive for multi-step
settings (𝑛· ℎmore expensive than the baseline per rollout), and we observe diminishing returns from
sampling more actions, despite tuning sampling hyperparameters such as the temperature.
Finding 1: Gaining new information via interaction beats thinking more a single step. Figure 3 (top)
plots the task success against total compute, measured by the number of tokens per trajectory in log
scale. Among the three strategies, interaction scaling (green) shows the steepest upward trend, achieving
5


=== Page 6 ===
Thinking vs. Doing: Agents that Reason by Scaling Test-Time Interaction
Figure 3: Top: Task success rate vs. total compute cost
(measured in tokens per trajectory, log scale). Interaction
scaling consistently achieves the highest success rate for a
given compute budget. Bottom: Decomposition of com-
pute into tokens per step and number of interaction steps
(excluding the initial point for each approach). Interaction
scaling achieves superior performance by distributing com-
pute across more steps with lower per-step cost, in contrast
to methods that put more tokens in fewer steps.
the highest success rate as the allowed token bud-
gets increase. Budget forcing (blue) yields moderate
gains but plateaus around 0.26. Despite incurring
the highest cost, best-of-𝑛(orange) brings the least
improvements, suggesting that repeatedly sampling
actions per step is a less effective use of compute in
interactive tasks.
A natural question that arises here is: how should we
distribute a bounded compute budget between running
more interaction steps vs. reasoning longer? These two
dimensions present different costs per unit, which
may not be known apriori. Hence, we illustrate how
scaling the number of interaction steps and the num-
ber of tokens per step affect performance and the total
number of tokens individually. Figure 3 (bottom) de-
composes total compute into tokens per step (y-axis)
and steps per rollout (x-axis), so the shaded areas
indicate the average total compute required per tra-
jectory. Interaction scaling extends along the x-axis,
while per-step reasoning scales along y-axis. We find
that scaling across steps is more effective than scal-
ing within steps in WebArena tasks (Figure 3, top),
likely because the former enables the agent to gather
new information and enrich its context. This ability
to query and observe external feedback is unique to
agentic settings but not single-turn question-answering tasks. While standard per-step reasoning is con-
strained by the information already available at each step, our approach takes advantage of this dynamic
interaction. However, in principle, one can combine more reasoning per-step with more interaction, at
the cost of spending many tokens.
Finding 2: Prompting alone is insufficient for interaction scaling. While our results highlight the po-
tential of scaling interaction, the “check-again” strategy only allows the agent to revisit its behavior
upon task completion, it does not enable it to implement nuanced behaviors such as switching between
exploration and exploitation in the middle of a rollout. We also experimented with combining interaction
scaling with budget forcing and best-of-𝑛(Appendix Table 6) and observe that simply increasing test-time
compute via prompting does not yield additive gains. In fact, the final downward trend in Figure 3
(top) suggests that asking the agent to re-check too many times or think for too long can confuse it and
degrade performance. This shows the need for methods that train agents to optimize for best behavior
when scaling test-time interaction, rather than naïve prompting.
Takeaways: Scaling test-time interaction vs. test-time compute
Under a fixed compute budget (measured by total tokens), gaining information through longer interaction
with the environment can be more effective than solely deepening per-step reasoning. While longer chain-
of-thought can improve local decision quality, interaction scaling offers a complementary and often more
compute-efficient way to enable agents to adapt and explore over longer horizons.
6


=== Page 7 ===
Thinking vs. Doing: Agents that Reason by Scaling Test-Time Interaction
5. TTI: Curriculum-Based Online RL for Scaling Interaction
How can we extend beyond prompting-based scaling to training agents that can effectively utilize
interaction scaling? A natural starting point is to draw inspiration from current approaches for optimizing
test-time compute [30, 71, 72] and extend these ideas to interactive settings. Specifically, we can run
reinforcement learning (RL) with binary task rewards and longer task horizons. However, is this approach
sufficient? We first describe the key challenges in learning to scale test-time interaction, and then develop
our approach to address them via curriculum learning.
5.1. Challenges of Training Agents with Fixed, Long Horizons
A natural way to encourage the agent to learn to take more steps is to train at long horizons. To study
this, we can run the simplest form of REINFORCE [84] with binary rewards 𝑅(·), also known as online
filtered behavior cloning (BC) or online STaR [20, 85]. Only successful trajectories are retained, and the
agent is updated by maximizing the log-likelihood of actions conditioned on those high-reward rollouts:
arg max
𝜃
E𝒯∼tasks
⎡
⎢⎢⎢⎢⎣
E𝑜0:ℎ,𝑎0:ℎ−1∼𝜋(·|𝒯)
⎡
⎢⎢⎢⎢⎣
⎛
⎜
⎜
⎜
⎜
⎝
ℎ−1
∑︁
𝑡=0
log 𝜋𝜃(𝑎𝑡| 𝑜≤𝑡, 𝒯)
likelihood of trajectory
⎞
⎟
⎟
⎟
⎟
⎠
· 1
⎡
⎣𝑅(𝑜0:ℎ, 𝒯)
reward
= 1
⎤
⎦
⎤
⎥⎥⎥⎥⎦
⎤
⎥⎥⎥⎥⎦
(5.1)
We use filtered BC as it is stable throughout training (no negative gradient [86]), has been utilized pre-
viously for training agents [20], and is a good “first-choice” algorithm for studying the role of interaction
scaling. We scale the agent’s horizon on WebArena, varying ℎ∈{5, 10, 20}. Smaller ℎexposes the agent
only to exploitative rollouts that succeed within allowed time steps, while larger ℎalso includes more
exploratory rollouts. We use the non-test tasks for rollout. Details are in Appendix D.5.
As shown in Figure 4 (left), the agent trained with ℎ= 5 learns quickly, likely because on-policy RL
is more sample-efficient at smaller horizons, but it also quickly overfits, and performance decreases
with more training (x-axis)2. This agent often terminates prematurely during evaluation despite being
allowed to interact for much longer time. Conversely, agents trained at longer horizons generally learn
policies that are quite stochastic and learn significantly more slowly due to higher variance of the loss and
credit assignment challenges due to longer horizons [e.g., 87–89]. We manually inspect the trajectories
and find that the ℎ= 20 agent tends to associate exploratory actions such as “going back” or “trying
random links” with high rewards initially. Noisy credit assignment with ℎ= 20 slows learning, and only
after several iterations do the agents begin to recover and produce more robust policies. The impact
of horizon is domain-dependent: in complex domains requiring exploration (e.g., CMS), long-horizon
agents outperform, while in simpler settings (e.g., Reddit), performance differences are minimal. We
also note that the total number of tokens generated per action slightly decreases throughout training,
indicating that the training does not incentivize increasing the length of reasoning directly.
Importantly, although the interaction length increases as expected for ℎ= 20 (Figure 4, right), noisy
credit assignment and slower learning suggests that simply setting ℎto be large is insufficient to learn
to scale test-time interaction reliably. These observations motivate our method’s core idea: rather than
fixing the horizon throughout training, our approach aims to scale their interaction length dynamically.
2We use the same training hyperparameters (Appendix D.5) across all settings for fair comparison. While reducing the
learning rate can help reduce performance drop, it does not address the core issue with small horizons: fewer successful rollouts
and shorter trajectories lead to significantly less training data.
7


=== Page 8 ===
Thinking vs. Doing: Agents that Reason by Scaling Test-Time Interaction
Figure 4: Online RL with different values of maximum interaction horizon. Left: success rates for different domains. “Harder”
means generally lower success rate. Right: average rollout length (ℎstop) on the evaluation set.
5.2. Our Approach: Curriculum Over Interaction Horizon
To address these challenges, we propose TTI (Test-Time Interaction), a curriculum-based online RL
approach that trains the agent with short trajectories initially and gradually exposes it to longer ones.
Existing curriculum learning methods in RL [e.g., 90–94] or web agents [23, 65] typically prioritize easier
tasks before harder ones, often relying on predefined heuristics or external measures of task complexity.
In contrast, we define curriculum progression in terms of the maximum number of steps an agent is
allowed per trajectory. While interaction length can serve as a rough proxy for task difficulty, our approach
does not require explicit labeling or estimation of task complexity.
How do we design a curriculum over the interaction horizon ℎ? Ideally, the curriculum should allow
the agent to first learn basic, “atomic” skills to solve easier tasks, then progressively tackle complex
ones via skill chaining and exploration. To enable this kind of behavior, we explored two strategies:
(1) a conservative, additive increase in ℎper iteration, giving the agent sufficient time to solidify core
task-solving skills; and (2) a more aggressive, multiplicative increase, which assumes the agent can quickly
acquire the basic skills and benefit from earlier exposure to exploratory behavior. Formally, for iteration 𝑖:
ℎ𝑖:= clip(ℎmin + 𝑖, ℎmax)
(Additive curriculum)
(5.2)
ℎ𝑖:= clip(ℎmin · 𝑖, ℎmax)
(Multiplicative curriculum)
(5.3)
We store the rollouts in a replay buffer and assign higher weights to more recent trajectories. The full
pseudocode for TTI and implementation details are provided in Appendix C.
Table 2: Comparing vari-
ous curricula. A multiplica-
tive curriculum produces the
best success rate.
Schedule
Task SR (%)
Additive
29.50
Multiplicative
32.25
Empirical insights. We instantiate these two strategies in WebArena, using
the non-test tasks for online training. We set ℎmin to 10 and ℎmax to 30, and
apply the schedules on top of filtered BC. Evaluation results after 10 iterations
are shown in Table 2. Multiplicative curriculum outperforms the additive
one, possibly because it exposes the agent to longer horizons early on and
helps prevent it from overfitting prematurely to shortcut behaviors like always
taking the shortest path. Based on these findings, we adopt the multiplicative
curriculum as the default for TTI. Table 2 further shows that even with limited data (∼700 training
tasks), TTI outperforms fixed ℎ= 20 in Figure 4 by nearly 3%, using 40% fewer training steps over 10
iterations. Next, we demonstrate that this advantage carries over to large-scale online RL training.
Takeaways: Curriculum training enables effective interaction scaling
Our approach, TTI, gradually scales the horizon using a curriculum, leading to better performance than
fixed-horizon baselines. The multiplicative schedule improves both learning efficiency and task success rate.
8


=== Page 9 ===
Thinking vs. Doing: Agents that Reason by Scaling Test-Time Interaction
6. Experiments: Scaling Up to Realistic Benchmarks
We now provide a comprehensive evaluation of TTI in large-scale, realistic environments. More generally,
we demonstrate the effectiveness of training models to make good use of test-time interaction.
Figure 5: Summary of our main results on WebVoyager and WebArena benchmarks.
TTI consistently outperforms fixed-horizon training with both short and long horizons.
Synthetic task generation
and evaluation. To enable
large-scale
training
with-
out training on the bench-
mark itself, we adopt syn-
thetic task generation in-
spired by PAE [19]. Apart
from prompting LLMs with
seed examples or demos, we
also deploy an exploratory
agent to freely interact with
websites and propose more
grounded, diverse tasks. For
evaluation, we leverage a
prompting-based verifier that
uses action histories and
screenshots to label rollouts, achieving 88.9% accuracy compared to WebArena’s ground-truth evaluator.
Details and prompt templates are in Appendix E.1. We evaluate agents on (1) WebVoyager [1] with 427
tasks across 13 domains (we replace Google search with Bing due to ReCaptcha issues); and (2) full
WebArena [2] with 812 tasks. We choose these benchmarks as they are widely used [e.g., 4].
Training. We obtain 128K synthetic tasks across diverse real-world domains for WebVoyager and 11K
tasks for WebArena’s self-hosted domains (data released with the code). We train separate agents for each
benchmark to avoid contaminating real-domain agents with synthetic environment data, as WebArena
domains still have many differences from their real-world counterparts. We use Gemma 3 12B [82] as
the base model, sampling 512 tasks per iteration for rollouts and updating with 512 successful on-policy
trajectories. We apply a multiplicative curriculum with ℎmin = 10 and ℎmax = 30. We use vLLM [95] to
sample rollouts and use DeepSpeed Zero 3 [96] with NVIDIA H100 GPUs for training. The evaluator
is a Gemma 3 27B model, prompted to detect successful trajectories, which can then be used for the
online filtered BC procedure. Other hyperparameters such as the number of iterations, learning rate,
and the exact schedule of TTI can be found in Appendix E.3.
Comparisons. We evaluate zero-shot Gemma 3 12B and approaches that utilize a fixed horizon with
ℎ∈{10, 30}. We also compare to closed-source agents (e.g., those based on GPT-4 [47] and Claude [48]),
open-weight models trained on proprietary data (e.g., UI-TARS [97]), and fully open-weight, open-data
models (e.g., PAE [19]). A detailed list of the prior approaches can be found in the result tables.
6.1. WebVoyager Results and Analysis
State-of-the-art open-weight, open-data performance. We report the overall task success rates (SR)
on WebVoyager in Table 3 and Figure 5 (left). The TTI-trained Gemma 3 12B achieves an average
SR of 64.8%, setting a new state-of-the-art among open agents trained purely on public data. While
previous methods such as UI-TARS achieves a strong SR of 84.8%, they rely on private human-annotated
9


=== Page 10 ===
Thinking vs. Doing: Agents that Reason by Scaling Test-Time Interaction
Table 3: WebVoyager results. Training a Gemma3 12B model using TTI attains the best performance among open-weight agents
trained on open-source synthetic data in aggregate on the WebVoyager benchmark. Baseline results are taken from Zhou et al.
[19], Qin et al. [97], and illustrate that TTI improves over the best prior open-model, open-source data approach by 30%.
Model
Average Allrecipes Amazon Apple ArXiv GitHub ESPN Coursera Cambridge BBC Map Search HuggingFace WolframAlpha
Proprietary Model
Claude 3.7
84.1
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Claude 3.5
50.5
50.0
68.3
60.4
46.5
58.5
27.3
78.6
86.0
36.6 58.5
30.2
44.2
66.7
OpenAI CUA
87.0
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Agent E
73.1
71.1
70.7
74.4
62.8
82.9
77.3
85.7
81.4
73.8 87.8
90.7
81.0
95.7
Open Model, Proprietary Human-Annotated Data
UI-TARS-1.5
84.8
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Open Model, Open Synthetic Data
LLaVa-34B SFT
22.2
6.8
26.8
23.3
16.3
4.9
8.6
26.8
67.4
16.7 12.2
23.3
20.9
38.1
PAE-LLaVa-7B
22.3
14.3
37.5
17.5
19.0
14.6
0.0
33.3
52.4
18.6 22.5
23.3
19.0
24.4
PAE-LLaVa-34B
33.0
22.7
53.7
38.5
25.6
14.6
13.6
42.9
74.4
39.0 22.0
18.6
25.6
42.9
Gemma 3 12B
55.8
25.7
32.3
45.5
60.6
54.8
60.6
56.3
69.6
65.6 54.8
72.7
66.7
61.1
Fixed ℎ= 10
59.1
25.7
74.1
51.5
75.7
70.9
44.1
59.3
66.7
50.0 41.9
60.6
75.5
72.2
Fixed ℎ= 30
45.2
20.0
41.9
60.6
42.4
41.9
50.0
34.4
60.6
25.0 29.0
63.6
45.5
69.4
TTI (Ours)
64.8
57.1
48.3
69.6
66.6
45.2
56.3
46.9
85.2
81.2 66.7
72.7
75.7
79.4
data that remains inaccessible to the open-source community. In contrast, TTI is trained entirely on
synthetic data and interestingly, this data is generated by the base model (Gemma 3 12B) itself, meaning
that our training protocol implements a form of self-improvement. This shows the practicality of our
approach, but also highlights the need for future work on developing high-quality open data comparable
to human-generated ones. TTI also obtains the highest SR in 8 out of 13 domains, illustrating its efficacy.
TTI outperforms fixed-horizon via adaptive exploration. Table 3 also shows that our curriculum ap-
proach outperforms fixed ℎ= 10 baseline by 5.7% and fixed ℎ= 30 baseline by 19.6% in average accuracy.
To better understand the use of interaction within a training rollout, we plot the average number of interac-
tion steps on a held-out validation set with 78 tasks in Figure 6 (a). Note that the agent trained with ℎ= 10
learns to continuously reduce the maximum number of steps it spends in a rollout, while ℎ= 30 quickly
drifts into aimless exploration and executes a larger number of steps pre-maturely in training, hindering
performance. This aligns with our findings in Section 5.1 that simply running training at a longer horizon
may not be sufficient for obtaining effective interaction scaling. In fact, we find that when training with
TTI, the interaction length of the agent’s rollouts first decreases but then starts to increase as the maximum
allowed horizon increases, indicating that an adaptive curriculum enables effective interaction scaling.
Figure 6 (d) shows that the task success rate also grows over time and correlates with the expanding
horizon. While the average task success rates for TTI are better, we observe notable per-domain differences.
Figure 6 (e) shows representative per-domain success rates. On domains like Allrecipes and Cambridge,
TTI significantly outperforms fixed-horizon and zero-shot approaches, improving success rates by 31.4%
and 15.6%, respectively, likely because these domains are highly information-dense and benefit from
extended exploration enabled by adaptive interaction scaling. However, in domains like Amazon and
GitHub, TTI underperforms the baselines. We notice that the base model already has strong knowledge
about domain-specific terminologies (e.g., commit history, forks, stars) in these domains, likely because
they are more prevalent than the others, resulting in high base performance. Inspecting the rollouts,
we find that instead of using built-in filters and sorting, TTI can engage in exploration behaviors such
as initiating Bing searches or consulting external sites. This exposes the agent to noisy or distracting
information, reducing task success. We discuss these cases in Section 6.2.
Learning dynamics of TTI. To study how TTI enhances the “within-rollout” exploration capabilities of
10


=== Page 11 ===
Thinking vs. Doing: Agents that Reason by Scaling Test-Time Interaction
15
10
5
0
5
10
15
Difference (%)
a
Max Horizon
0 1
5
10
Iter
Trajectory Length (Centered)
TTI
Fixed h = 10
Fixed h = 30
15
10
5
0
b
Max Horizon
0 1
5
10
Iter
GoBack & Bing (Centered)
12.5
10.0
7.5
5.0
2.5
0.0
c
Max Horizon
0 1
5
10
Iter
Tokens Per Step (Centered)
50.0
52.5
55.0
57.5
60.0
Success Rate (%)
d
Max Horizon
0
5
10
Iter
TTI Average Success Rate
0
25
Relative SR (%)
0
5
10
Iter
Allrecipes
0
20
Relative SR (%)
0
5
10
Iter
Cambridge Dictionary
0
20
Relative SR (%)
0
5
10
Iter
Huggingface
10
0
Relative SR (%)
0
5
10
Iter
Amazon
e
Figure 6: Dynamics of TTI during training. For TTI, the green area represents the phase where the maximum allowed
interaction horizon is the largest (ℎ= 30), per our multiplicative schedule. All results are evaluated on a held-out subset of
WebVoyager, not on the training tasks. a: Average trajectory length, i.e. the average number of steps taken in a trajectory
normalized by the average length at the first iteration (iteration 0). b: Ratio of the sum of GoBack and Bing actions out of all
actions normalized by the first iteration. c: The average number of tokens each action uses, i.e., the average CoT length during
agent reasoning. d: Average task success rates for TTI on the held-out validation set of tasks. e: Per-domain success rates for
TTI. All results are evaluated on a held-out subset of WebVoyager tasks. Observe that TTI learns to utilize more interaction
steps and explores by calling GoBack and Bing actions once the maximum allowed horizon increases to peak value (i.e., in the
green shaded area). The number of tokens appearing every step reduces for TTI compared to the initialization, resulting in
significantly shorter CoT compared to the run with ℎ= 10.
the agent, we measure the number of GoBack and Bing actions over the course of training. GoBack actions
measure the number of retries the agent makes within an episode to get unstuck during exploration.
Bing actions correspond to the number of times the agent attempts to seek information by moving to
bing.com. As shown in Figure 6 (a, b, and d), the performance of TTI improves substantially as the
number of GoBack and Bing actions and the trajectory length grow.
Also note that the trajectory length and the numbers of GoBack and Bing actions begin to increase with
TTI, once the maximum allowed horizon length is increased as a part of the curriculum schedule (this
regime is shown by the green shaded area in Figure 6). In contrast, these quantities continuously decrease
over the course of training for the run with a lower number of maximum interaction steps (ℎ= 10). We
also find that the trajectory length shoots up substantially for the run with ℎ= 30 and this correlates
with worse performance. Finally, as shown in Figure 6 (c) we also note that as the agent’s trajectory
grows longer with TTI, the number of tokens appearing in per-step reasoning actually becomes smaller.
This implies that our agent is automatically learning to tradeoff interaction for per-step compute in order
to attain higher performance, and perhaps prevents any issues with overthinking.
11


=== Page 12 ===
Thinking vs. Doing: Agents that Reason by Scaling Test-Time Interaction
6.2. Case Studies: Strengths and Failure Modes
We conduct detailed case studies to analyze how TTI behaves across tasks and domains. These cases
highlight both the strengths and remaining limitations of our approach.
Strength: Effective exploration in complex tasks (example visualized in Appendix E.4). For complex,
exploratory tasks that require information retrieval, TTI trains the agent to extend its interaction horizon
through search and backtracking, thus gathering and comparing information before making decisions.
For instance, when tasked to find the baking temperature of an apple pie recipe with 4+ stars and 50+
reviews, our agent first selects a recipe but encounters a pop-up it cannot dismiss due to backend issues.
It then tries another recipe but finds no baking temperature. Returning to the listing again, it correctly
identifies one that meets all criteria. We also observe that such behaviors emerge progressively. In early
training with shorter horizon, TTI-agent tends to stick to the first recipe it finds, keeps retrying it and
saying “I remember seeing one with 613 ratings earlier” instead of seeking alternatives. Only after the
training horizon becomes longer does it learn to explore and backtrack. This illustrates that when TTI
runs a curriculum over interaction length, it teaches agents to adjust their horizon within a task and shift
from exploitation to exploration. In contrast, training with a fixed short horizon can make it difficult to
develop such exploratory behaviors.
Strength: Strategic exploitation in simple tasks (Appendix E.5). For simpler tasks with clear, deter-
ministic paths (e.g., form filling or direct lookups), TTI-agent completes tasks efficiently without over-
exploration. For example, when instructed to find the “top trending open-source project on machine
learning” in GitHub, the agent goes directly to the Open-Source menu, selects the Trending tab, and
performs search. This shows that TTI balances exploration and exploitation based on task context.
Despite these strengths, we also observe characteristic failure modes that point to areas for improvement
and may partly explain the agent’s lower performance on domains like GitHub.
Failure mode: over-reliance on resets (Appendix E.6). When an action fails, our agent can reset the
task by returning to the Bing search page rather than attempting recovery within the target domain. This
suggests the agent treats search as a universal fallback, even when more domain-specific actions (e.g.,
revisiting menus, refining filters) would be more effective. We also observe repeated resets within the
same trajectory, indicating a lack of adaptive error recovery. While agents can extend horizons through
both resetting and backtracking, the latter is often more natural. This highlights an area where TTI could
improve by guiding exploration more systematically and enforcing structure. We believe that using dense
rewards [69, 72] or running full multi-turn RL with value functions [98] may address this issue.
Failure mode: limited self-verification (Appendix E.7). We also observe that the agent can fail to verify
its actions against the task goal, especially in the last step. In one case, the agent identifies a 2021 GitHub
repository for a task requiring one from 2022. While it explicitly acknowledges the mismatch, “It was
created in 2021, not 2022, so it doesn’t meet the criteria”, it still submits it as the answer. This implies
limited self-verification ability and could be mitigated by longer, more deliberate per-step reasoning. An
important next step is to enrich TTI with the cognitive behaviors that enable per-step reasoning [99].
6.3. WebArena Results and Analysis
We further assess TTI on the full WebArena [2] (we only use the prompting-based verifier for training,
but use the original benchmark evaluators for evaluation). As shown in Table 4 and Figure 5 (right), TTI
obtains the highest performance among open-source agents trained entirely using a self-improvement
12


=== Page 13 ===
Thinking vs. Doing: Agents that Reason by Scaling Test-Time Interaction
Table 4: Full WebArena results. For proprietary agents, we include the top 8 from the official leaderboard. Observe that TTI
attains the best performance on an average, with especially better performance on the CMS domain.
Method
Backbone
Average
Shopping
CMS
Reddit
GitLab
Maps
Proprietary-Based
IBM CUGA [100]
-
61.7
-
-
-
-
-
OpenAI CUA [4]
-
58.1
-
-
-
-
-
Jace AI [101]
-
57.1
-
-
-
-
-
ScribeAgent [14]
GPT-4o + Qwen2.5 32B
53.0
45.8
37.9
73.7
59.7
56.3
AgentSymbiotic [18]
Claude 3.5 + Llama 3.1 8B
48.5
48.7
41.2
63.2
47.2
57.8
Learn-by-Interact [64]
Claude 3.5 Sonnet
48
-
-
-
-
-
AgentOccam-Judge [33]
GPT-4
45.7
43.3
46.2
67.0
38.9
52.3
WebPilot [34]
GPT-4o
37.2
36.9
24.7
65.1
39.4
33.9
Fully Open-Source
Learn-by-Interact [64]
Codestral 22B
24.2
-
-
-
-
-
(Self-Improvement)
AgentTrek [37]
Qwen2.5 32B
22.4
-
-
-
-
-
AutoWebGLM [65]
ChatGLM3 6B
18.2
-
-
-
-
-
NNetnav [102]
Llama 3.1 8B
7.2
7.4
4.2
0
0
28.5
Zero-Shot Baseline
Gemma 3 12B
18.3
26.7
8.7
30.9
5.5
27.7
Fixed ℎ= 10
Gemma 3 12B
23.8
28.4
15.6
26.0
13.2
34.7
Fixed ℎ= 30
Gemma 3 12B
19.0
25.7
9.7
29.8
8.7
28.57
TTI (Ours)
Gemma 3 12B
26.1
33.9
15.5
35.3
15.7
40.5
procedure on self-generated data, without relying on proprietary models for task completion or distillation.
While TTI improves over the zero-shot baseline by 7.8%, the gains are smaller than on WebVoyager,
possibly because: (1) WebArena tasks are more complex, as reflected in lower accuracies even for
proprietary models, leading to fewer successful rollouts per iteration and slower learning; (2) Agents
occasionally attempt actions that are valid in real-world domains but invalid in WebArena counterparts
(for example, search works reliably on Reddit but fails in WebArena’s Postmill due to environment bugs).
More experiment details are in Appendix D.6.
Figure 7: We apply test-time re-checks to
TTI checkpoints. Note that inference-time
re-checking improves performance on all TTI
checkpoints, and more importantly, training
further with TTI improves performance more
than inference-time re-checks as expected.
Further scaling. While TTI equips agents with the ability to ad-
just their interaction horizon during deployment, an open ques-
tion remains: Can we further amplify performance by combining
TTI with inference-time interaction scaling techniques such as
re-checking as discussed in Section 4? To explore this, we ap-
ply the “check-again” strategy (Section 4) to intermediate TTI
checkpoints. Due to the high evaluation cost associated with
evaluating on full WebVoyager or WebArena, we leverage the
WebArena subset checkpoints obtained in Section 5.2.
As shown in Figure 7, applying re-checking on top of TTI improves
task success across various training stages. The benefits are more
obvious in the early stages of training, when the agent has a
stronger bias to terminate prematurely. As training progresses,
TTI encourages longer interaction traces that naturally incorpo-
rate behaviors like re-checking, reducing the added benefit of explicit re-checks. Nonetheless, even in
later stages, re-checking does continue to provide modest gains in performance, serving as a safety-check
for well-trained agents.
13


=== Page 14 ===
Thinking vs. Doing: Agents that Reason by Scaling Test-Time Interaction
7. Conclusion and Future Work
In this work, we introduced interaction scaling as a new dimension of test-time scaling for interactive
agents. Through empirical studies on web agents, we validate that interaction scaling enables agents to
explore and adapt dynamically, significantly improving task performance. Despite the promising results,
there are a number of avenues for future work which we list below.
• Extension to other agentic problem domains. While we only study the effects of interaction
scaling on web environments, we believe that this procedure is likely going to be even more effective
in domains that admit more stochasticity and uncertainty, such as robotic control or open-world
compute use problems. In these settings, solving tasks would require gather information first before
attempting to solve the task. By utilizing interaction as an effective tool for information gathering,
we can attain much better performance.
• Balancing the tradeoff between thinking more and acting more. While we illustrate that
spending a given amount of total token budget on acting for longer can be more effective than
reasoning for longer, an interesting open question is how we should incentivize RL training to
best balance thinking and acting during the process of learning. In our experiments, we observed
an increased preference towards acting longer, with the number of tokens in per-step reasoning
decreasing compared to the initialization. While this results in better use of total overall test-time
compute given our results in Section 4, it is unclear as to what a general thumb rule and training
procedure should be to attain the best tradeoff between acting longer and thinking more.
• Improved RL algorithms for powering interaction scaling. The RL approach we utilize in this
work is extremely simple as it corresponds to online filtered behavior cloning (BC). An immediate
next promising direction is to extend TTI to utilize negative gradients [86] via GRPO [78] or
PPO [103]. However, stochasticity and, even non-stationarity, in interactive agent environments
suggests that RL algorithms that train value functions [21, 98] are likely to be more successful
at effective credit assignment as the task horizon is scaled further. In addition, we will need to
address challenges pertaining to memory and context length, that is very likely to overflow as we
scale horizon even further. Tackling any of these challenges would be exciting for future work.
Acknowledgments
We thank Jiayi Pan, Shanda Li, and Yuxiao Qu for feedback and informative discussions on an earlier
version of this paper. This work was supported in part by the National Science Foundation grants
IIS1705121, IIS1838017, IIS2046613, IIS2112471, the Office of Naval Research under N00014-24-1-
2206, and funding from Meta, Morgan Stanley, Amazon, Google, and Scribe. We specially thank Scribe,
The AGI company, and CMU FLAME Center (Orchard cluster) for providing a part of the GPU resources
that supported this work. Any opinions, findings and recommendations expressed in this material are
those of the author(s) and do not necessarily reflect the views of any of these funding agencies or
employers.
14


=== Page 15 ===
Thinking vs. Doing: Agents that Reason by Scaling Test-Time Interaction
References
[1] Hongliang He, Wenlin Yao, Kaixin Ma, Wenhao Yu, Yong Dai, Hongming Zhang, Zhenzhong Lan,
and Dong Yu. Webvoyager: Building an end-to-end web agent with large multimodal models,
2024. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.13919.
[2] Shuyan Zhou, Frank F. Xu, Hao Zhu, Xuhui Zhou, Robert Lo, Abishek Sridhar, Xianyi Cheng,
Tianyue Ou, Yonatan Bisk, Daniel Fried, Uri Alon, and Graham Neubig. Webarena: A realistic web
environment for building autonomous agents. In The Twelfth International Conference on Learning
Representations, 2024. URL https://openreview.net/forum?id=oKn9c6ytLx.
[3] Claude. Introducing computer use, a new claude 3.5 sonnet, and claude 3.5 haiku, 2024. URL
https://www.anthropic.com/news/3-5-models-and-computer-use.
[4] OpenAI.
Introducing
operator,
2025.
URL
https://openai.com/index/
introducing-operator/.
[5] Magnus Müller and Gregor Žunič. Browser use: Enable ai to control your browser, 2024. URL
https://github.com/browser-use/browser-use.
[6] Wenyi Hong, Weihan Wang, Qingsong Lv, Jiazheng Xu, Wenmeng Yu, Junhui Ji, Yan Wang, Zihan
Wang, Yuxiao Dong, Ming Ding, and Jie Tang. Cogagent: A visual language model for gui agents,
2023.
[7] Claude.
Your code’s new collaborator, 2025.
URL https://www.anthropic.com/
claude-code.
[8] Physical Intelligence, Kevin Black, Noah Brown, James Darpinian, Karan Dhabalia, Danny Driess,
Adnan Esmail, Michael Equi, Chelsea Finn, Niccolo Fusai, Manuel Y. Galliker, Dibya Ghosh,
Lachy Groom, Karol Hausman, Brian Ichter, Szymon Jakubczak, Tim Jones, Liyiming Ke, Devin
LeBlanc, Sergey Levine, Adrian Li-Bell, Mohith Mothukuri, Suraj Nair, Karl Pertsch, Allen Z.
Ren, Lucy Xiaoyang Shi, Laura Smith, Jost Tobias Springenberg, Kyle Stachowicz, James Tanner,
Quan Vuong, Homer Rich Walke, Anna Walling, Haohuan Wang, Lili Yu, and Ury Zhilinsky.
pi0.5: a vision-language-action model with open-world generalization. 2025. URL https:
//api.semanticscholar.org/CorpusID:277993634.
[9] Yuexiang Zhai, Hao Bai, Zipeng Lin, Jiayi Pan, Shengbang Tong, Yifei Zhou, Alane Suhr, Saining
Xie, Yann LeCun, Yi Ma, and Sergey Levine. Fine-tuning large vision-language models as decision-
making agents via reinforcement learning. ArXiv, abs/2405.10292, 2024. URL https://api.
semanticscholar.org/CorpusID:269790773.
[10] Luyao Yuan, Zipeng Fu, Jingyue Shen, Lu Xu, Junhong Shen, and Song-Chun Zhu. Emergence of
pragmatics from referential game between theory of mind agents, 2021. URL https://arxiv.
org/abs/2001.07752.
[11] Luyao Yuan, Dongruo Zhou, Junhong Shen, Jingdong Gao, Jeffrey L Chen, Quanquan
Gu, Ying Nian Wu, and Song-Chun Zhu.
Iterative teacher-aware learning.
In M. Ran-
zato, A. Beygelzimer, Y. Dauphin, P.S. Liang, and J. Wortman Vaughan, editors, Advances in
Neural Information Processing Systems, volume 34, pages 29231–29245. Curran Associates,
15


=== Page 16 ===
Thinking vs. Doing: Agents that Reason by Scaling Test-Time Interaction
Inc., 2021. URL https://proceedings.neurips.cc/paper_files/paper/2021/file/
f48c04ffab49ff0e5d1176244fdfb65c-Paper.pdf.
[12] Weixin Liang, Junhong Shen, Genghan Zhang, Ning Dong, Luke Zettlemoyer, and Lili Yu. Mixture-
of-mamba: Enhancing multi-modal state-space models with modality-aware sparsity, 2025. URL
https://arxiv.org/abs/2501.16295.
[13] Lucy Xiaoyang Shi, Brian Ichter, Michael Equi, Liyiming Ke, Karl Pertsch, Quan Vuong, James
Tanner, Anna Walling, Haohuan Wang, Niccolo Fusai, Adrian Li-Bell, Danny Driess, Lachy
Groom, Sergey Levine, and Chelsea Finn. Hi robot: Open-ended instruction following with
hierarchical vision-language-action models. ArXiv, abs/2502.19417, 2025. URL https://api.
semanticscholar.org/CorpusID:276618098.
[14] Junhong Shen, Atishay Jain, Zedian Xiao, Ishan Amlekar, Mouad Hadji, Aaron Podolny, and
Ameet Talwalkar. Scribeagent: Towards specialized web agents using production-scale workflow
data. ArXiv, abs/2411.15004, 2024. URL https://api.semanticscholar.org/CorpusID:
274192657.
[15] Xiang Deng, Yu Gu, Boyuan Zheng, Shijie Chen, Samuel Stevens, Boshi Wang, Huan Sun, and
Yu Su. Mind2web: Towards a generalist agent for the web. In Thirty-seventh Conference on
Neural Information Processing Systems Datasets and Benchmarks Track, 2023. URL https://
openreview.net/forum?id=kiYqbO3wqw.
[16] Junhong Shen, Liam Li, Lucio M. Dery, Corey Staten, Mikhail Khodak, Graham Neubig, and Ameet
Talwalkar. Cross-modal fine-tuning: align then refine. In Proceedings of the 40th International
Conference on Machine Learning, 2023.
[17] Junhong Shen, Neil Tenenholtz, James Brian Hall, David Alvarez-Melis, and Nicolo Fusi. Tag-llm:
Repurposing general-purpose llms for specialized domains, 2024.
[18] Ruichen Zhang, Mufan Qiu, Zhen Tan, Mohan Zhang, Vincent Lu, Jie Peng, Kaidi Xu, Leandro Z.
Agudelo, Peter Qian, and Tianlong Chen. Symbiotic cooperation for web agents: Harnessing
complementary strengths of large and small llms. ArXiv, abs/2502.07942, 2025.
[19] Yifei Zhou, Qianlan Yang, Kaixiang Lin, Min Bai, Xiong Zhou, Yu-Xiong Wang, Sergey Levine, and
Erran L. Li. Proposer-agent-evaluator(pae): Autonomous skill discovery for foundation model
internet agents. ArXiv, abs/2412.13194, 2024.
[20] Hao Bai, Yifei Zhou, Mert Cemri, Jiayi Pan, Alane Suhr, Sergey Levine, and Aviral Kumar. Di-
girl: Training in-the-wild device-control agents with autonomous reinforcement learning. ArXiv,
abs/2406.11896, 2024.
[21] Hao Bai, Yifei Zhou, Erran L. Li, Sergey Levine, and Aviral Kumar. Digi-q: Learning q-value
functions for training device-control agents. ArXiv, abs/2502.15760, 2025.
[22] Junhong Shen and Lin F. Yang. Theoretically principled deep rl acceleration via nearest neighbor
function approximation. Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence, 35(11):9558–
9566, May 2021. doi: 10.1609/aaai.v35i11.17151. URL https://ojs.aaai.org/index.
php/AAAI/article/view/17151.
16


=== Page 17 ===
Thinking vs. Doing: Agents that Reason by Scaling Test-Time Interaction
[23] Zehan Qi, Xiao Liu, Iat Long Iong, Hanyu Lai, Xueqiao Sun, Wenyi Zhao, Yu Yang, Xinyue
Yang, Jiadai Sun, Shuntian Yao, Tianjie Zhang, Wei Xu, Jie Tang, and Yuxiao Dong. Webrl:
Training llm web agents via self-evolving online curriculum reinforcement learning, 2025. URL
https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.02337.
[24] Claude. Claude takes research to new places, 2025. URL https://www.anthropic.com/
news/research.
[25] OpenAI.
Introducing
deep
research,
2025.
URL https://openai.com/index/
introducing-deep-research/.
[26] Google Gemini. Gemini deep research, 2025. URL https://gemini.google/overview/
deep-research/?hl=en.
[27] Niklas Muennighoff, Zitong Yang, Weijia Shi, Xiang Lisa Li, Fei-Fei Li, Hanna Hajishirzi, Luke S.
Zettlemoyer, Percy Liang, Emmanuel J. Candes, and Tatsunori Hashimoto. s1: Simple test-
time scaling. ArXiv, abs/2501.19393, 2025. URL https://api.semanticscholar.org/
CorpusID:276079693.
[28] Yangzhen Wu, Zhiqing Sun, Shanda Li, Sean Welleck, and Yiming Yang. Inference scaling laws:
An empirical analysis of compute-optimal inference for LLM problem-solving. In The Thirteenth
International Conference on Learning Representations, 2025. URL https://openreview.net/
forum?id=VNckp7JEHn.
[29] Yinlam Chow, Guy Tennenholtz, Izzeddin Gur, Vincent Zhuang, Bo Dai, Sridhar Thiagarajan,
Craig Boutilier, Rishabh Agarwal, Aviral Kumar, and Aleksandra Faust. Inference-aware fine-
tuning for best-of-n sampling in large language models. ArXiv, abs/2412.15287, 2024. URL
https://api.semanticscholar.org/CorpusID:274965054.
[30] Charlie Victor Snell, Jaehoon Lee, Kelvin Xu, and Aviral Kumar. Scaling LLM test-time compute
optimally can be more effective than scaling parameters for reasoning. In The Thirteenth Interna-
tional Conference on Learning Representations, 2025. URL https://openreview.net/forum?
id=4FWAwZtd2n.
[31] Xiao Liu, Hanyu Lai, Hao Yu, Yifan Xu, Aohan Zeng, Zhengxiao Du, Peng Zhang, Yuxiao Dong, and
Jie Tang. Webglm: Towards an efficient web-enhanced question answering system with human
preferences, 2023.
[32] Hiroki Furuta, Kuang-Huei Lee, Ofir Nachum, Yutaka Matsuo, Aleksandra Faust, Shixiang Shane
Gu, and Izzeddin Gur. Multimodal web navigation with instruction-finetuned foundation models,
2024. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2305.11854.
[33] Ke Yang, Yao Liu, Sapana Chaudhary, Rasool Fakoor, Pratik Chaudhari, George Karypis, and
Huzefa Rangwala. Agentoccam: A simple yet strong baseline for llm-based web agents, 2024.
URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.13825.
[34] Yao Zhang, Zijian Ma, Yunpu Ma, Zhen Han, Yu Wu, and Volker Tresp. Webpilot: A versatile and
autonomous multi-agent system for web task execution with strategic exploration, 2024. URL
https://arxiv.org/abs/2408.15978.
17


=== Page 18 ===
Thinking vs. Doing: Agents that Reason by Scaling Test-Time Interaction
[35] Junhong Shen, Tanya Marwah, and Ameet Talwalkar. UPS: Efficiently building foundation models
for PDE solving via cross-modal adaptation. Transactions on Machine Learning Research, 2024.
ISSN 2835-8856. URL https://openreview.net/forum?id=0r9mhjRv1E.
[36] Junhong Shen, Kushal Tirumala, Michihiro Yasunaga, Ishan Misra, Luke Zettlemoyer, Lili Yu, and
Chunting Zhou. Cat: Content-adaptive image tokenization, 2025. URL https://arxiv.org/
abs/2501.03120.
[37] Yiheng Xu, Dunjie Lu, Zhennan Shen, Junli Wang, Zekun Wang, Yuchen Mao, Caiming Xiong,
and Tao Yu. Agenttrek: Agent trajectory synthesis via guiding replay with web tutorials. ArXiv,
abs/2412.09605, 2024.
[38] Yueqi Song, Frank Xu, Shuyan Zhou, and Graham Neubig. Beyond browsing: Api-based web
agents, 2024. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.16464.
[39] Zongzhe Xu, Ritvik Gupta, Wenduo Cheng, Alexander Shen, Junhong Shen, Ameet Talwalkar, and
Mikhail Khodak. Specialized foundation models struggle to beat supervised baselines, 2024. URL
https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.02796.
[40] Junhong Shen, Abdul Hannan Faruqi, Yifan Jiang, and Nima Maftoon. Mathematical reconstruction
of patient-specific vascular networks based on clinical images and global optimization. IEEE Access,
9:20648–20661, 2021. doi: 10.1109/ACCESS.2021.3052501.
[41] Shanda Li, Tanya Marwah, Junhong Shen, Weiwei Sun, Andrej Risteski, Yiming Yang, and Ameet
Talwalkar. Codepde: An inference framework for llm-driven pde solver generation, 2025. URL
https://arxiv.org/abs/2505.08783.
[42] Boyuan Zheng, Michael Y. Fatemi, Xiaolong Jin, Zora Zhiruo Wang, Apurva Gandhi, Yueqi Song,
Yu Gu, Jayanth Srinivasa, Gaowen Liu, Graham Neubig, and Yu Su. Skillweaver: Web agents can
self-improve by discovering and honing skills. 2025. URL https://api.semanticscholar.
org/CorpusID:277634081.
[43] Jiayi Pan, Yichi Zhang, Nicholas Tomlin, Yifei Zhou, Sergey Levine, and Alane Suhr. Autonomous
evaluation and refinement of digital agents. arXiv preprint arXiv:2404.06474, 2024.
[44] Junhong Shen, Mikhail Khodak, and Ameet Talwalkar. Efficient architecture search for diverse
tasks. In Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems (NeurIPS), 2022.
[45] Renbo Tu, Nicholas Roberts, Mikhail Khodak, Junhong Shen, Frederic Sala, and Ameet Talwalkar.
NAS-bench-360: Benchmarking neural architecture search on diverse tasks. In Advances in Neural
Information Processing Systems (NeurIPS) Datasets and Benchmarks Track, 2022.
[46] Yao Fu, Dong-Ki Kim, Jaekyeom Kim, Sungryull Sohn, Lajanugen Logeswaran, Kyunghoon Bae,
and Honglak Lee. Autoguide: Automated generation and selection of state-aware guidelines for
large language model agents. arXiv preprint arXiv:2403.08978, 2024.
[47] OpenAI. Gpt-4 technical report, 2024. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2303.08774.
[48] Anthropic. Introducing the next generation of claude, 2024. URL https://www.anthropic.
com/news/claude-3-family.
18


=== Page 19 ===
Thinking vs. Doing: Agents that Reason by Scaling Test-Time Interaction
[49] Paloma Sodhi, S. R. K. Branavan, Yoav Artzi, and Ryan McDonald. Step: Stacked llm policies for
web actions. In Conference on Language Modeling (COLM), 2024. URL https://arxiv.org/
abs/2310.03720.
[50] Tamer Abuelsaad, Deepak Akkil, Prasenjit Dey, Ashish Jagmohan, Aditya Vempaty, and Ravi Kokku.
Agent-e: From autonomous web navigation to foundational design principles in agentic systems.
ArXiv, abs/2407.13032, 2024.
[51] Wenduo Cheng, Junhong Shen, Mikhail Khodak, Jian Ma, and Ameet Talwalkar. L2g: Repurposing
language models for genomics tasks. bioRxiv, 2024. doi: 10.1101/2024.12.09.627422. URL
https://www.biorxiv.org/content/early/2024/12/11/2024.12.09.627422.
[52] Lutfi Eren Erdogan, Nicholas Lee, Sehoon Kim, Suhong Moon, Hiroki Furuta, Gopala Anu-
manchipalli, Kurt Keutzer, and Amir Gholami. Plan-and-act: Improving planning of agents
for long-horizon tasks, 2025.
[53] Aviral Kumar, Vincent Zhuang, Rishabh Agarwal, Yi Su, John D. Co-Reyes, Avi Singh, Kate Baumli,
Shariq Iqbal, Colton Bishop, Rebecca Roelofs, Lei M. Zhang, Kay McKinney, Disha Shrivastava,
Cosmin Paduraru, George Tucker, Doina Precup, Feryal M. P. Behbahani, and Aleksandra Faust.
Training language models to self-correct via reinforcement learning. ArXiv, abs/2409.12917,
2024.
[54] Jing Yu Koh, Stephen McAleer, Daniel Fried, and Ruslan Salakhutdinov. Tree search for language
model agents. arXiv preprint arXiv:2407.01476, 2024.
[55] Longtao Zheng, Rundong Wang, Xinrun Wang, and Bo An. Synapse: Trajectory-as-exemplar
prompting with memory for computer control. In The Twelfth International Conference on Learning
Representations, 2024. URL https://openreview.net/forum?id=Pc8AU1aF5e.
[56] Zhiruo Wang, Jiayuan Mao, Daniel Fried, and Graham Neubig. Agent workflow memory. arXiv
preprint arXiv:2409.07429, 2024.
[57] Revanth Gangi Reddy, Sagnik Mukherjee, Jeonghwan Kim, Zhenhailong Wang, Dilek Hakkani-Tur,
and Heng Ji. Infogent: An agent-based framework for web information aggregation. ArXiv,
abs/2410.19054, 2024.
[58] Shikhar Murty, Christopher Manning, Peter Shaw, Mandar Joshi, and Kenton Lee. Bagel: Boot-
strapping agents by guiding exploration with language. arXiv preprint arXiv:2403.08140, 2024.
[59] Shikhar Murty, Dzmitry Bahdanau, and Christopher D. Manning. Nnetscape navigator: Complex
demonstrations for web agents without a demonstrator, 2024. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/
2410.02907.
[60] Brandon Trabucco, Gunnar Sigurdsson, Robinson Piramuthu, and Ruslan Salakhutdinov. To-
wards internet-scale training for agents. ArXiv, abs/2502.06776, 2025. URL https://api.
semanticscholar.org/CorpusID:276249229.
[61] Pranav Putta, Edmund Mills, Naman Garg, Sumeet Ramesh Motwani, Chelsea Finn, Divyansh Garg,
and Rafael Rafailov. Agent q: Advanced reasoning and learning for autonomous ai agents. ArXiv,
abs/2408.07199, 2024. URL https://api.semanticscholar.org/CorpusID:271865516.
19


=== Page 20 ===
Thinking vs. Doing: Agents that Reason by Scaling Test-Time Interaction
[62] Yifei Zhou, Andrea Zanette, Jiayi Pan, Sergey Levine, and Aviral Kumar.
Archer: Training
language model agents via hierarchical multi-turn rl. ArXiv, abs/2402.19446, 2024. URL https:
//api.semanticscholar.org/CorpusID:268091206.
[63] Taiyi Wang, Zhihao Wu, Jianheng Liu, Jianye Hao, Jun Wang, and Kun Shao. Distrl: An asyn-
chronous distributed reinforcement learning framework for on-device control agents. ArXiv,
abs/2410.14803, 2024. URL https://api.semanticscholar.org/CorpusID:273501605.
[64] Hongjin Su, Ruoxi Sun, Jinsung Yoon, Pengcheng Yin, Tao Yu, and Sercan Ö. Arik. Learn-by-
interact: A data-centric framework for self-adaptive agents in realistic environments. ArXiv,
abs/2501.10893, 2025.
[65] Hanyu Lai, Xiao Liu, Iat Long Iong, Shuntian Yao, Yuxuan Chen, Pengbo Shen, Hao Yu, Hanchen
Zhang, Xiaohan Zhang, Yuxiao Dong, and Jie Tang. Autowebglm: A large language model-based
web navigating agent. In Proceedings of the 30th ACM SIGKDD Conference on Knowledge Discovery
and Data Mining, pages 5295—-5306, 2024.
[66] Charlie Snell, Jaehoon Lee, Kelvin Xu, and Aviral Kumar. Scaling llm test-time compute optimally
can be more effective than scaling model parameters.
ArXiv, abs/2408.03314, 2024.
URL
https://api.semanticscholar.org/CorpusID:271719990.
[67] Yangzhen Wu, Zhiqing Sun, Shanda Li, Sean Welleck, and Yiming Yang. Inference scaling laws:
An empirical analysis of compute-optimal inference for problem-solving with language models.
2024. URL https://api.semanticscholar.org/CorpusID:271601023.
[68] Karl Cobbe, Vineet Kosaraju, Mo Bavarian, Mark Chen, Heewoo Jun, Lukasz Kaiser, Matthias
Plappert, Jerry Tworek, Jacob Hilton, Reiichiro Nakano, Christopher Hesse, and John Schulman.
Training verifiers to solve math word problems. ArXiv, abs/2110.14168, 2021. URL https:
//api.semanticscholar.org/CorpusID:239998651.
[69] Amrith Rajagopal Setlur, Chirag Nagpal, Adam Fisch, Xinyang Geng, Jacob Eisenstein, Rishabh
Agarwal, Alekh Agarwal, Jonathan Berant, and Aviral Kumar. Rewarding progress: Scaling
automated process verifiers for llm reasoning.
ArXiv, abs/2410.08146, 2024.
URL https:
//api.semanticscholar.org/CorpusID:273233462.
[70] Amrith Rajagopal Setlur, Nived Rajaraman, Sergey Levine, and Aviral Kumar.
Scaling test-
time compute without verification or rl is suboptimal. ArXiv, abs/2502.12118, 2025. URL
https://api.semanticscholar.org/CorpusID:276422443.
[71] DeepSeek-AI. Deepseek-r1: Incentivizing reasoning capability in llms via reinforcement learn-
ing. ArXiv, abs/2501.12948, 2025. URL https://api.semanticscholar.org/CorpusID:
275789950.
[72] Yuxiao Qu, Matthew Y. R. Yang, Amrith Rajagopal Setlur, Lewis Tunstall, Edward Beeching, Ruslan
Salakhutdinov, and Aviral Kumar. Optimizing test-time compute via meta reinforcement fine-
tuning. ArXiv, abs/2503.07572, 2025. URL https://api.semanticscholar.org/CorpusID:
276928248.
[73] Zihan Wang, Kangrui Wang, Qineng Wang, Pingyue Zhang, Linjie Li, Zhengyuan Yang, Xing Jin,
Kefan Yu, Minh Nhat Nguyen, Licheng Liu, Eli Gottlieb, Yiping Lu, Kyunghyun Cho, Jiajun Wu,
20


=== Page 21 ===
Thinking vs. Doing: Agents that Reason by Scaling Test-Time Interaction
Li Fei-Fei, Lijuan Wang, Yejin Choi, and Manling Li. Ragen: Understanding self-evolution in
llm agents via multi-turn reinforcement learning, 2025. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2504.
20073.
[74] Shunyu Yao, Jeffrey Zhao, Dian Yu, Nan Du, Izhak Shafran, Karthik Narasimhan, and Yuan Cao.
React: Synergizing reasoning and acting in language models, 2023. URL https://arxiv.org/
abs/2210.03629.
[75] Xiao Yu, Baolin Peng, Vineeth Vajipey, Hao Cheng, Michel Galley, Jianfeng Gao, and Zhou Yu. Exact:
Teaching ai agents to explore with reflective-mcts and exploratory learning. ArXiv, abs/2410.02052,
2024. URL https://api.semanticscholar.org/CorpusID:273098809.
[76] Lunjun Zhang, Arian Hosseini, Hritik Bansal, Mehran Kazemi, Aviral Kumar, and Rishabh Agarwal.
Generative verifiers: Reward modeling as next-token prediction. arXiv preprint arXiv:2408.15240,
2024.
[77] Can Jin, Hongwu Peng, Qixin Zhang, Yujin Tang, Dimitris N. Metaxas, and Tong Che. Two
heads are better than one: Test-time scaling of multi-agent collaborative reasoning. 2025. URL
https://api.semanticscholar.org/CorpusID:277781795.
[78] Zhihong Shao, Peiyi Wang, Qihao Zhu, Runxin Xu, Jun-Mei Song, Mingchuan Zhang, Y. K. Li,
Yu Wu, and Daya Guo. Deepseekmath: Pushing the limits of mathematical reasoning in open
language models. ArXiv, abs/2402.03300, 2024.
[79] Mingyang Chen, Tianpeng Li, Haoze Sun, Yijie Zhou, Chenzheng Zhu, Haofen Wang, Jeff Z. Pan,
Wen Zhang, Huajun Chen, Fan Yang, Zenan Zhou, and Weipeng Chen. Research: Learning to
reason with search for llms via reinforcement learning, 2025. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/
2503.19470.
[80] Xu Wan, Wenyue Xu, Chao Yang, and Mingyang Sun. Think twice, act once: A co-evolution
framework of llm and rl for large-scale decision making, 2025. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/
2506.02522.
[81] Zora Zhiruo Wang, Apurva Gandhi, Graham Neubig, and Daniel Fried. Inducing programmatic skills
for agentic tasks. 2025. URL https://api.semanticscholar.org/CorpusID:277634286.
[82] Gemma Team. Gemma 3 technical report. ArXiv, abs/2503.19786, 2025. URL https://api.
semanticscholar.org/CorpusID:277313563.
[83] Yuxiao Qu, Tianjun Zhang, Naman Garg, and Aviral Kumar. Recursive introspection: Teaching
language model agents how to self-improve. Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems,
37:55249–55285, 2024.
[84] Richard S Sutton, David McAllester, Satinder Singh, and Yishay Mansour. Policy gradient methods
for reinforcement learning with function approximation. Advances in neural information processing
systems, 12, 1999.
[85] Eric Zelikman, Yuhuai Wu, Jesse Mu, and Noah Goodman. Star: Bootstrapping reasoning with
reasoning. Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, 35:15476–15488, 2022.
21


=== Page 22 ===
Thinking vs. Doing: Agents that Reason by Scaling Test-Time Interaction
[86] Fahim Tajwar, Anikait Singh, Archit Sharma, Rafael Rafailov, Jeff Schneider, Tengyang Xie, Stefano
Ermon, Chelsea Finn, and Aviral Kumar.
Preference Fine-Tuning of LLMs Should Leverage
Suboptimal, On-Policy Data, ICML 2024.
[87] Cathy Wu, Aravind Rajeswaran, Yan Duan, Vikash Kumar, Alexandre M. Bayen, Sham M. Kakade,
Igor Mordatch, and P. Abbeel. Variance reduction for policy gradient with action-dependent
factorized baselines. ArXiv, abs/1803.07246, 2018. URL https://api.semanticscholar.
org/CorpusID:4043645.
[88] Tingting Zhao, Hirotaka Hachiya, Gang Niu, and Masashi Sugiyama. Analysis and improvement of
policy gradient estimation. Neural networks : the official journal of the International Neural Network
Society, 26:118–29, 2011. URL https://api.semanticscholar.org/CorpusID:2274728.
[89] Dotan Di Castro, Aviv Tamar, and Shie Mannor. Policy gradients with variance related risk criteria.
arXiv: Learning, 2012. URL https://api.semanticscholar.org/CorpusID:3109162.
[90] Yoshua Bengio, Jérôme Louradour, Ronan Collobert, and Jason Weston. Curriculum learning. In
International Conference on Machine Learning, 2009. URL https://api.semanticscholar.
org/CorpusID:873046.
[91] Sanmit Narvekar, Bei Peng, Matteo Leonetti, Jivko Sinapov, Matthew E. Taylor, and Peter Stone.
Curriculum learning for reinforcement learning domains: A framework and survey.
ArXiv,
abs/2003.04960, 2020. URL https://api.semanticscholar.org/CorpusID:212657666.
[92] Xin Wang, Yudong Chen, and Wenwu Zhu. A survey on curriculum learning. IEEE Transac-
tions on Pattern Analysis and Machine Intelligence, 44:4555–4576, 2021. URL https://api.
semanticscholar.org/CorpusID:232362223.
[93] Tambet Matiisen, Avital Oliver, Taco Cohen, and John Schulman. Teacher–student curriculum
learning. IEEE Transactions on Neural Networks and Learning Systems, 31:3732–3740, 2017. URL
https://api.semanticscholar.org/CorpusID:8432394.
[94] Marcin Andrychowicz, Dwight Crow, Alex Ray, Jonas Schneider, Rachel Fong, Peter Welinder,
Bob McGrew, Joshua Tobin, P. Abbeel, and Wojciech Zaremba. Hindsight experience replay. In
NeurIPS, 2017. URL https://api.semanticscholar.org/CorpusID:3532908.
[95] Woosuk Kwon, Zhuohan Li, Siyuan Zhuang, Ying Sheng, Lianmin Zheng, Cody Hao Yu, Joseph E.
Gonzalez, Hao Zhang, and Ion Stoica. Efficient memory management for large language model
serving with pagedattention. In Proceedings of the ACM SIGOPS 29th Symposium on Operating
Systems Principles, 2023.
[96] Jeff Rasley, Samyam Rajbhandari, Olatunji Ruwase, and Yuxiong He. Deepspeed: System opti-
mizations enable training deep learning models with over 100 billion parameters. Proceedings of
the 26th ACM SIGKDD International Conference on Knowledge Discovery & Data Mining, 2020. URL
https://api.semanticscholar.org/CorpusID:221191193.
[97] Yujia Qin, Yining Ye, Junjie Fang, Haoming Wang, Shihao Liang, Shizuo Tian, Junda Zhang, Jiahao
Li, Yunxin Li, Shijue Huang, et al. Ui-tars: Pioneering automated gui interaction with native
agents. arXiv preprint arXiv:2501.12326, 2025.
22


=== Page 23 ===
Thinking vs. Doing: Agents that Reason by Scaling Test-Time Interaction
[98] Yifei Zhou, Andrea Zanette, Jiayi Pan, Sergey Levine, and Aviral Kumar. Archer: Training language
model agents via hierarchical multi-turn rl. arXiv preprint arXiv:2402.19446, 2024.
[99] Kanishk Gandhi, Ayush Chakravarthy, Anikait Singh, nathan lile, and Noah D. Goodman. Cognitive
behaviors that enable self-improving reasoners, or, four habits of highly effective stars. ArXiv,
abs/2503.01307, 2025. URL https://api.semanticscholar.org/CorpusID:276741915.
[100] Sami Marreed, Alon Oved, Avi Yaeli, Segev Shlomov, Ido Levy, Aviad Sela, Asaf Adi, and Nir
Mashkif. Towards enterprise-ready computer using generalist agent. ArXiv, abs/2503.01861,
2025. URL https://api.semanticscholar.org/CorpusID:276775684.
[101] JaceAI.
Awa
1.5
achieves
breakthrough
performance
on
we-
barena
benchmark,
2024.
URL
https://www.jace.ai/post/
awa-1-5-achieves-breakthrough-performance-on-webarena-benchmark.
[102] Shikhar Murty, Dzmitry Bahdanau, and Christopher D. Manning. Nnetnav: Unsupervised learning
of browser agents through environment interaction in the wild. 2024. URL https://api.
semanticscholar.org/CorpusID:273162280.
[103] John Schulman, Filip Wolski, Prafulla Dhariwal, Alec Radford, and Oleg Klimov. Proximal policy
optimization algorithms. CoRR, abs/1707.06347, 2017.
23


=== Page 24 ===
Thinking vs. Doing: Agents that Reason by Scaling Test-Time Interaction
Appendices
A. Broader Impact
This work contributes to the development of more adaptive and capable AI agents by introducing a
new test-time scaling dimension focused on interaction rather than per-step reasoning alone. While this
approach improves robustness and generalization in open-ended environments, it also raises important
considerations. Increased agent autonomy can amplify both the benefits and risks of deployment in
real-world systems. Moreover, agents capable of richer behaviors could be applied to sensitive domains
(e.g., customer service, education, or automation workflows) where unintended actions could have
large impacts. We encourage future work to consider ethical safeguards, interpretability tools, and
human-in-the-loop designs when deploying interaction-scaled agents. Our experiments are conducted
entirely in simulated environments, and we hope this work inspires further research on controllable and
trustworthy agent behavior under realistic constraints.
B. Observation Space Design
We use the screenshot accompanied with the web page’s accessibility tree as our main observation. We
study two versions of accessibility tree. Rich accessibility tree is modified from the WebArena code and
looks like:
[21]: RootWebArea ’Dashboard / Magento Admin’ focused: True; [0]: link ’Magento Admin Panel’;
[1]: link ’DASHBOARD’; [2]: link ’SALES’; [3]: link ’CATALOG’; [4]: link ’CUSTOMERS’; [5]: link
’MARKETING’; [6]: link ’CONTENT’; [7]: link ’REPORTS’; [8]: link ’STORES’; [22]: link ’SYSTEM’; [23]:
link ’FIND PARTNERS & EXTENSIONS’; [24]: heading ’Dashboard’; [9]: link ’admin’; [10]: link ”; [25]:
StaticText ’Scope:’; [12]: button ’All Store Views’ hasPopup: menu; [13]: link ’What is this?’; [14]: button
’Reload Data’...
Simple accessibility tree is modified from the PAE code and looks like:
[1]: "Dashboard"; [2]: "Sales"; [3]: "Catalog"; [4]: "Customers"; [5]: "Marketing"; [6]: "Content"; [7]:
"Reports"; [8]: "Stores"; [9]: "admin"; [12]: <button> "All Store Views"; [13]: "What is this?"; [14]:
<button> "Reload Data"; [15]: "Go to Advanced Reporting"; [16]: "here";...
Rich tree contains more details such as the HTML tag and attributes like required, hasPopup compared
to simple tree. However, it is much longer than simple tree and hence harder to optimize due to the
increased context length.
C. TTI Implementation
We provide the pseudocode in Algorithm 1. For the replay buffer, to encourage the agent to learn from
more recent examples, we assign weights based on recency when sampling rollouts to update the agent:
for the 𝑘-th trajectory added to the buffer, its weight is
𝑘
|𝒟|.
24


=== Page 25 ===
Thinking vs. Doing: Agents that Reason by Scaling Test-Time Interaction
Algorithm 1 TTI: Filtered Behavior Cloning with Interaction Scheduling
1: Input: Agent policy 𝜋𝜃, Evaluator ℛ, Environment ℰ, Learning rate 𝛼, Replay buffer 𝒟, Interaction
scheduler hyperparameters ℎmin, ℎmax
2: Initialize policy 𝜋𝜃from pretrained model
3: Initialize replay buffer 𝒟←{}
4: for each episode 𝑖do
5:
Set interaction horizon ℎ𝑖←get_schedule(𝑖, ℎmin, ℎmax)
6:
for each rollout to collect do
7:
Initialize environment: 𝑠0 ∼ℰ
8:
for each 𝑡in [1, ℎ𝑖] do
9:
Observe current state 𝑠𝑡
10:
Predict action ˆ𝑎𝑡←𝜋𝜃(𝑠𝑡)
11:
Execute action ˆ𝑎𝑡in environment
12:
Observe next state 𝑠𝑡+1
13:
if episode done then
14:
Compute reward 𝑟𝑡←ℛ(𝑠𝑡, ˆ𝑎𝑡)
15:
else
16:
𝑟𝑡←0
17:
end if
18:
Store transition: 𝒟←𝒟∪{(𝑠𝑡, ˆ𝑎𝑡, 𝑟𝑡, 𝑠𝑡+1)}
19:
end for
20:
end for
21:
for sample successful trajectory in 𝒟do
22:
for 𝑡= 1 to ℎstop do
23:
Accumulate loss: 𝐿(𝜃) ←𝐿(𝜃) + CrossEntropy(𝜋𝜃(𝑠𝑡), ˆ𝑎𝑡)
24:
end for
25:
end for
26:
Update policy: 𝜃←𝜃−𝛼∇𝜃𝐿(𝜃)
27: end for
D. WebArena Experiments
D.1. WebArena Agent Prompt
CoT Prompt
Imagine you are an agent browsing the web, just like humans. Now you need to complete a task.
In each iteration, you will receive an observation that includes the accessibility tree of the webpage
and a screenshot of the current viewpoint. The accessbility tree contains information about the
web elements and their properties. The screenshot will feature numerical labels placed in the TOP
LEFT corner of web elements in th current viewpoint. Carefully analyze the webpage information
to identify the numerical label corresponding to the web element that requires interaction, then
follow the guidelines and choose one of the following actions:
1. Click a web element.
25


=== Page 26 ===
Thinking vs. Doing: Agents that Reason by Scaling Test-Time Interaction
2. Delete existing content in a textbox and then type content.
3. Scroll up or down the whole window.
4. Go back, returning to the previous webpage.
5. Answer. This action should only be chosen when all questions in the task have been solved.
Correspondingly, action should STRICTLY follow the format specified by one of the following lines:
Click [numerical_label]
Type [numerical_label] [content]
Scroll [up/down]
GoBack
ANSWER [content]
Some examples are:
Click [8]
Type [22] [Boston]
Scroll [down]
ANSWER [06516]
Key guidelines you MUST follow:
* Action guidelines *
- Use either screenshot or accessibility tree to obtain the numerical_label. Sometimes the accessi-
bility tree captures more elements than the screenshot. It’s safe to select these elements without
scrolling
- For text input, use Type action directly (no need to click first). All existing texts in the textbox
will be deleted automatically before typing
- Preserve text inside quotation marks exactly as provided by user
- You must not repeat the same actions over and over again. If the same action doesn’t work, try
alternative approaches
- Use ANSWER only after completing ALL task requirements
- Wrap content for Type and ANSWER with square brackets ‘[]‘
- Do not add quotation marks for search queries
* Web navigation hints *
{hint}
Your reply should strictly follow the format:
Thought: Your reasoning trace. A good practice is to summarize information on the current web
page that are relevant to the task goal, then generate a high-level plan that contains the sequence
of actions you probably need to take
Action: Based on this reasoning, identify the single most optimal action. You should output it in
the format specified above (under "STRICTLY follow the format")
After each action, you’ll receive a new observation. Proceed until task completion. Now solve the
following task.
Task: {task_goal}
Current URL: {url}
Screenshot of current viewpoint: attached
Accessibility tree of current viewpoint: {accessibility_tree}
Beyond the above CoT prompt, we also tried using a more complex prompt for the thought process.
However, this does not lead to significant gain in downstream accuracy (see Table 5), but it could increase
26


=== Page 27 ===
Thinking vs. Doing: Agents that Reason by Scaling Test-Time Interaction
training and inference cost, so we did not use it in the end.
Complex Prompt
Thought: You must analyze the current webpage thoroughly to guide your decision-making. Show
your reasoning through these steps:
- Summarization: Begin by understanding the page context - identify what type of page you’re
on (search results, form, article, etc.) and how it relates to your objective. Summarize important
information on the webpage that might be relevant to task completion. Especially when the
task requires to return some answers to a specific question, you should note down intermediate
information that helps generate the answer.
- Planning: Generate a checklist of subtasks required for completion and cross-out the subtasks
you’ve completed. Identify the next logical subtask.
- Verification: Verify all information you’ve entered so far. Check that your inputs match require-
ments in terms of spelling and format (you should not change the user-specified information,
even if there’re grammar errors). Verify if any selections for dropdown items align with the task
objective. Identify if there’re necessary fields that have not been filled in. Note that if the last few
steps are repeating the same action, there must be missing or incorrect information.
- Backtracking: If the task requires exploring multiple webpages (e.g., orders, posts, item pages,
etc) to find out an answer, consider if you need to issue GoBack and return to the previous web
page.
- Candidate Generation: After all the above reasoning, list the most relevant possible actions,
evaluate pros and cons of each action, and finally select the most effective action to progress task.
Action: Choose ONE of the following action formats:
- Click [numerical_label] - Click a specific element
- Type [numerical_label] [content] - Input text into a field
- Scroll [up/down] - Navigate the page vertically
- GoBack - Return to previous webpage
- ANSWER [content] - Provide final answer when task is complete
D.2. WebArena Domain-Specific Prompts
Below are the content replacing “{hint}” in the general prompt.
General Hint
- Always save progress through appropriate buttons (Save, Submit, Post, etc.)
- Always remember to interact with dropdown options after expanding
- Clear filters before setting new ones
Reddit
- Always save progress through appropriate buttons (Save, Submit, Post, etc.)
- Always remember to interact with dropdown options after expanding
- Pay attention to words like "latest", "newest", "hottest" in the task objective, which require clicking
the dropdown menu and select "New" or "Top" with the correct time range
27


=== Page 28 ===
Thinking vs. Doing: Agents that Reason by Scaling Test-Time Interaction
- When selecting a subforum, you can either browse the dropdown menu in the "Submit" page or
navigate to "Forums" and check all subforums by clicking on "Next" to go over all pages. You must
try to find a subforum that exactly matches your query. If there’s no exact match, pick the most
relevant one, ideally the subforum is about objects or locations contained in the given objective
- "Trending" means "hot"
- To find out all posts or replies from a user, click the user name and then click "Submissions" or
"Comments"
CMS
- Always save progress through appropriate buttons (Save, Submit, Post, etc.)
- Always remember to interact with dropdown options after expanding
- Clear filters before setting new ones
- Use date format: month/day/year (e.g., 1/1/16, 12/31/24)
- When searching phone numbers, remove the country code
- When searching product name, use single but not plural form
- When the web page contains a table, aggregate the rows with the same item
Shopping
- Always save progress through appropriate buttons (Save, Submit, Post, etc.)
- Always remember to interact with dropdown options after expanding
- Sort items by price by clicking the dropdown menu and set descending/ascending direction
- When searching product name, use single but not plural form
- If the objective requires only finding an item, stop at the item page without adding to cart
- To find out the quality of a product, search the item, click on review, and inspect its review
- Click "Page Next" to iterate over all orders
- Since there’s no way to filter order history, click "View Order" for every order within a date range
and inspect individually. If the condition is not met, go back
GitLab
- Always save progress through appropriate buttons (Save, Submit, Post, etc.)
- Always remember to interact with dropdown options after expanding
- Clear filters before setting new ones
- When searching a repo in gitlab, type only the project name after "/" in the search box
Map
- Always remember to interact with dropdown options after expanding
- When searching for a place, remove prepositions like in/on/by/at. For example, use "starbucks,
craig street" instead of "starbucks on craig street". Put the city name at the end
- When there is no results shown up after search, rephrase the address and try again
- To find direction between two points, after entering the from and to addresses, select the correct
transportation (foot/bicycle/car) before clicking "Go"
28


=== Page 29 ===
Thinking vs. Doing: Agents that Reason by Scaling Test-Time Interaction
- When the given location is not a geological address, use your knowledge to infer the address
D.3. CoT Experiments for Base Agent
To enable efficient rollout collection, we spin up multiple Docker containers on a single GPU according to
the official WebArena repository. We use the vLLM [95] engine for inference and apply the following
inference hyperparameters for most of our experiments.
• max_new_tokens: 1024
• max_attached_imgs: 4
• temperature: 1
• top_p: 0.95
We randomly subsample 62 test tasks for analysis purposes. Below are the results of zero-shot agent vs
CoT prompting. “CoT” uses the “General Prompt” in Section D.1. “Complex CoT” uses the “Complex
Prompt” in Section D.1.
Table 5: Base agent results averaged over 3 runs on WebArena subset.
Prompt
Task SR (%)
Action Only
14.76
CoT
23.81
Complex CoT
23.33
D.4. Scaling Trade-off Experiments
“Check-again” for interaction scaling.
After the agent outputs the task-stop signal, we append the
following prompts to the observation to induce it to check again.
Check-Again Prompt
Important: You returned an answer in the last step. Let’s pause, check the web page, and think
again. If you still think the task is finished, double-check your answer, revise it if need, and return a
final answer. If not, continue the task. Your output should still be in the same “Thought:...Action:...”
format.
When applying multiple re-checks, we slightly vary the prompts such as ‘‘Before you finalize the answer,
re-evaluate it in terms of the current web page—what exactly supports or contradicts it?” or “Why do I
believe this answer is correct? What on the page justifies it? Could an alternative answer be better?” Please
refer to the code base for the exact prompt used.
Per-step budget forcing.
Following [72], we use the phrases below to induce longer per-step thinking.
The phrases are different to ensure that the model does not run into the scenario of endless repeating a
phrase.
29


=== Page 30 ===
Thinking vs. Doing: Agents that Reason by Scaling Test-Time Interaction
• First time: Wait, let me think deeper.
• Second time: But let me double-check.
• Third time: But hold on.
Per-step best-of-𝑛.
We tried both selecting by log likelihood and majority voting, with the latter
showing slightly better results.
Additional results for combined scaling.
Beyond evaluating each scaling method separately, we also
tried combining methods along different axes.
Table 6: Comparing different inference-time prompting strategies. Results averaged over 3 runs on WebArena subset.
All methods are applied once.
Inference-Time Strategy
Task SR (%)
Baseline
23.81
Check-again
26.14
Budget-forcing
24.81
Best-of-𝑛
25.03
Check-again + Budget-forcing
26.33
Check-again + Best-of-𝑛
27.36
D.5. TTI and Online Filtered BC Hyperparameters for Preliminary Experiments
We use the following hyperparameters to obtain the training curves in Figure 4. During training, the
vision_tower of Gemma 3 is kept frozen because it is frozen during pretraining. Other hyperparameters
can be found in our code.
• num_iteration: 10
• actor_epochs: 1 # number of epochs to update the actor
• rollout_size: 512
• num_update_sample_per_iteration: 512
• lr: 1e-6
• optimizer: AdamW
• scheduler: WarmupCosineLR
• batch_size: 4
• grad_accum_steps: 2
• training_gpu_size: 4
• eval_horizon: 30
For multiplicative curriculum, we use the schedule: 10, 20, 30, 30, ... For additive curriculum, we use the
schedule: 10, 11, 12, 13, ...
D.6. TTI Hyperparameters for Full WebArena Experiments
We use the following hyperparameters to obtain the full WebArena results for Table 4.
30


=== Page 31 ===
Thinking vs. Doing: Agents that Reason by Scaling Test-Time Interaction
• num_iteration: 10
• horizon_schedule: 10, 20, 20, 30, 30, 30, ...
• actor_epochs: 1 # number of epochs to update the actor
• rollout_size: 512
• num_update_sample_per_iteration: 512
• lr: 1e-6
• optimizer: AdamW
• scheduler: WarmupCosineLR
• batch_size: 4
• grad_accum_steps: 2
• training_gpu_size: 4
• eval_horizon: 30
E. WebVoyager Experiments
E.1. Task Generator & Evaluator Prompt
Task Generator Prompt
You are a website exploration assistant tasked with discovering potential tasks on websites. These
tasks should be similar to a user-specified task and aim to complete some high-level goals such as
booking restaurants in a website. Your goal is to freely explore websites and propose tasks similar
to a given set of examples. For each iteration, you’ll receive:
- An observation with the webpage’s accessibility tree
- A screenshot showing numerical labels in the TOP LEFT corner of web elements
You will then generate possible tasks while exploring the website. You should imagine tasks that
are likely proposed by a most likely user of this website. You’ll be given a set of examples for
reference, but you must not output tasks that are the same as the given examples. The generated
tasks must be realistic and at least require 3 steps to complete. It cannot be too simple.
## Response Format and Available Actions
Your reply for each iteration must strictly follow this format:
Thought: Analyze the current webpage thoroughly to guide your exploration. Examine the
webpage’s structure, content, and interactive elements to identify potential tasks that users might
perform on this site. Decide whether you want to keep exploring or output some tasks
Tasks:
If you think you are ready to generate some tasks, output them in the follow-
ing format (note that different tasks are separated with double semicolons): GENERATE
[task1;answer1;;task2;answer2]
Action: Then, to continue with your exploration, choose ONE of the following action formats:
- Click [numerical_label] - Click a specific element
- Type [numerical_label] [content] - Input text into a field
- Scroll [up/down] - Navigate the page vertically
- GoBack - Return to previous webpage
Examples:
Click [8]
Type [22] [Boston]
31


=== Page 32 ===
Thinking vs. Doing: Agents that Reason by Scaling Test-Time Interaction
Scroll [down]
GENERATE [Find the company’s phone number;(555) 123-4567;;Locate the price of the basic
subscription plan;$19.99/month]
Your final output should look like:
Thought: ...
Tasks: GENERATE [...] (this is optional, only generate when you are confident)
Action: ...
## Critical Guidelines
### Action Rules
- Use either screenshot or accessibility tree to obtain the numerical_label
- For text input, use Type action directly (no need to click first)
- Ensure proposed tasks are diverse and demonstrate different aspects of the website. The tasks
must have diverse difficulty and require different number of steps (3-20) to complete.
- Tasks should be clear, specific, achievable, and self-contained. It cannot be too general, e.g.,
related to äny post¨, äny product¨, äny place¨. It must not depend on any context or actions that you
have performed, i.e., you must assume zero prior knowledge when someone wants to complete
the task
- Your task should be objective and unambiguous. The carry-out of the task should NOT BE
DEPENDENT on the user’s personal information such as the CURRENT TIME OR LOCATION
- Your tasks should be able to be evaluated OBJECTIVELY. That is, by looking at the last three
screenshots and the answer provided by an agent, it should be possible to tell without ambiguity
whether the task was completed successfully or not
- Answers should be precise (e.g., exact prices, specific information, exact text)
- Your should output both operational tasks (the goal is to complete some steps) and information
retrieval tasks (the goal is to find some answer to return)
- You must refer to the examples given and mimic the complexity and task structure. See how
these tasks are self-contained and realistic
- Your proposed task cannot be a single action like click, type! Tasks like ’Determine the number of
uses for that term’ is unacceptable because it is ambiguous as a stand-alone task; ’Uncheck Use
system value’ is unacceptable because it is not a complete task; ’Locate the total revenue for the
last month’ is unacceptable because ’last month’ is ambiguous;
After each action, you’ll receive a new observation. Continue exploring and generating tasks.
Here’re some examples: {example}
Current URL: {url}
Screenshot of current viewpoint: attached
Accessibility tree of current viewpoint: {accessibility_tree}
Evaluator Prompt
You are an expert in evaluating the performance of a web navigation agent. The agent is designed
to help a human user navigate a website to complete a task. Your goal is to decide whether the
agent’s execution is successful or not.
As an evaluator, you will be presented with three primary components to assist you in your role:
1. Web Task Instruction: This is a clear and specific directive provided in natural language, detailing
32


=== Page 33 ===
Thinking vs. Doing: Agents that Reason by Scaling Test-Time Interaction
the online activity to be carried out.
2. Result Response: This is a textual response obtained after the execution of the web task. It
serves as textual result in response to the instruction.
3. Result Screenshots: This is a visual representation of the screen showing the result or interme-
diate state of performing a web task. It serves as visual proof of the actions taken in response to
the instruction.
– You SHOULD NOT make assumptions based on information not presented in the screenshot when
comparing it to the instructions.
– Your primary responsibility is to conduct a thorough assessment of the web task instruction
against the outcome depicted in the screenshot and in the response, evaluating whether the actions
taken align with the given instructions.
– NOTE that the instruction may involve more than one task, for example, locating the garage and
summarizing the review. Failing to complete either task, such as not providing a summary, should
be considered unsuccessful.
– NOTE that the screenshot is authentic, but the response provided by LLM is generated at the end
of web browsing, and there may be discrepancies between the text and the screenshots.
– Note that if the content in the Result response is not mentioned on or different from the screenshot,
mark it as not success.
– NOTE that the task may be impossible to complete, in which case the agent should indicate
this in the response. CAREFULLY VERIFY THE SCREENSHOT TO DETERMINE IF THE TASK IS
IMPOSSIBLE TO COMPLETE. Be aware that the agent may fail because of its incorrect actions,
please do not mark it as impossible if the agent fails because of its incorrect actions.
You should explicit consider the following criterion:
- Whether the claims in the response can be verified by the screenshot. E.g. if the response claims
the distance between two places, the screenshot should show the direction. YOU SHOULD EXPECT
THAT THERE IS A HIGH CHANCE THAT THE AGENT WILL MAKE UP AN ANSWER NOT VERIFIED
BY THE SCREENSHOT.
- Whether the agent completes EXACTLY what the task asks for. E.g. if the task asks to find a
specific place, the agent should not find a similar place.
In your responses:
You should first provide thoughts EXPLICITLY VERIFY ALL THREE CRITERION and then provide a
definitive verdict on whether the task has been successfully accomplished, either as ’SUCCESS’ or
’NOT SUCCESS’.
A task is ’SUCCESS’ only when all of the criteria are met. If any of the criteria are not met, the
task should be considered ’NOT SUCCESS’.
E.2. Agent Prompt
WebVoayager
Imagine you are a robot browsing the web, just like humans. Now you need to complete a task. In
each iteration, you will receive an observation that includes the accessibility tree of the webpage
and a screenshot of the current viewpoint. The accessbility tree contains information about the
web elements and their properties. The screenshot will feature numerical labels placed in the TOP
33


=== Page 34 ===
Thinking vs. Doing: Agents that Reason by Scaling Test-Time Interaction
LEFT corner of web elements in the current viewpoint. Carefully analyze the webpage information
to identify the numerical label corresponding to the web element that requires interaction, then
follow the guidelines and choose one of the following actions:
1. Click a web element.
2. Delete existing content in a textbox and then type content.
3. Scroll up or down the whole window.
4. Go back, returning to the previous webpage.
5. Navigate to Bing’s homepage.
6. Answer. This action should only be chosen when all questions in the task have been solved.
Correspondingly, action should STRICTLY follow the format specified by one of the following lines:
Click [numerical_label]
Type [numerical_label] [content]
Scroll [up/down]
GoBack
Bing
ANSWER [content]
Some examples are:
Click [8]
Type [22] [Boston]
Scroll [down]
Bing
ANSWER [06516]
Key guidelines you MUST follow:
* Action guidelines *
1. The predicted action should be based on elements as long as it’s accessibility tree OR screenshot.
Sometimes, accessibility tree or screenshot captures more elements than the other, but it’s fine to
use either one.
2. To input text for search bars, no need to click textbox first, directly type content. After typing,
the system automatically hits ’ENTER’ key.
3. When a complex task involves multiple questions or steps, select ’ANSWER’ only at the very
end, after addressing all of these questions or steps. Double check the formatting requirements in
the task when ANSWER. Always think twice before using ’ANSWER’ action!!!
4. When specifying the content for ’Type’ and ’ANSWER’ actions, be sure to wrap the content with
’[]’.
5. Use ‘GoBack‘ to return to the previous state, use it when you find the previous action incorrect.
6. When you see a pop-up page, you should immediately ‘GoBack‘ to the previous page.
7. Use ‘Bing‘ when you need to navigate to a different website or search for new information.
Your reply should strictly follow the format:
Thought: Your reasoning trace. A good practice is to follow this format:
- Observation summary: where are you at now? list all elements that are related to the task goal.
e.g. if you’re trying to filter something out, list all filters visible.
- Planning: what sequence of actions do you need take to achieve the task goal? give a high-level
overview of the steps you need to take.
- Possible actions: to achieve that plan, what are potential actions you need to do immediately and
34


=== Page 35 ===
Thinking vs. Doing: Agents that Reason by Scaling Test-Time Interaction
what’s their effect? List at least 3 actions and analyze each of them.
Action: Based on this reasoning, identify the single most optimal action. You should output it in
the format specified above ("...STRICTLY follow the format...").
After you issue an action, the user will execute it and provide a new observation. Now solve the
following task.
Task: {task_goal}
Current URL: {url}
Screenshot of current viewpoint: attached
Accessibility tree of current viewpoint: {accessibility_tree}
E.3. Experiment Details
We use the following hyperparameters to obtain the WebVoyager results.
• num_iteration: 12
• horizon_schedule: 10, 20, 20, 30, 30, 30, 30, 30, 30, 30, 30, 30, 30
• actor_epochs: 1 # number of epochs to update the actor
• rollout_size: 512
• num_update_sample_per_iteration: 512
• lr: 4e-6
• optimizer: AdamW
• scheduler: WarmupCosineLR
• batch_size_per_gpu: 4
• grad_accum_steps: 2
• training_gpu_size: 6
• eval_horizon: 30 # note that train horizon is different for different methods, but evaluation horizon
is kept the same
In Figure 6, the green area starts from iteration 6, because this is the first iteration where it’s possible to
have all trajectories sampled for training have a horizon of 𝐻= 30.
35


=== Page 36 ===
Thinking vs. Doing: Agents that Reason by Scaling Test-Time Interaction
E.4. Case Studies: Strengths 1
Task: Locate a recipe for an American apple pie on Allrecipes with a rating of at least 4 stars and more
than 50 reviews. Note the maximum temperature mentioned in the Directions.
Fully trained agent explores:
Step 1-8
Step 9-15
36


=== Page 37 ===
Thinking vs. Doing: Agents that Reason by Scaling Test-Time Interaction
Early-stage agent prefers exploitation:
37


=== Page 38 ===
Thinking vs. Doing: Agents that Reason by Scaling Test-Time Interaction
E.5. Case Studies: Strengths 2
Task: Identify the latest top-trending open-source project in the category of ‘Machine Learning’ on GitHub,
and check the number of stars it has received.
38


=== Page 39 ===
Thinking vs. Doing: Agents that Reason by Scaling Test-Time Interaction
E.6. Case Studies: Fail Modes 1
Task: On Apple’s website, how many different types of keyboards are available when customizing your
14-inch MacBook Pro?
Step 1-8
Step 9-16
39


=== Page 40 ===
Thinking vs. Doing: Agents that Reason by Scaling Test-Time Interaction
Task: Which university maintains and manages ArXiv. Accessing the university’s website from ArXiv, how
many undergraduate students are currently at the university.
40


=== Page 41 ===
Thinking vs. Doing: Agents that Reason by Scaling Test-Time Interaction
E.7. Case Studies: Fail Modes 2
Task: Identify a new open-source project on GitHub related to ‘AI agriculture’ that created in 2022, and
note its main programming language and description.
41


